<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kid3 '<application>Kid3</application>'>
  <!ENTITY doublehyphen '--'>
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE"><!-- change language only here -->
]>
<book lang="&language;" id="kid3-handbook">

<bookinfo>
<title>The Kid3 Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Urs</firstname>
<surname>Fleisch</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>ufleisch@users.sourceforge.net</email></address>
</affiliation>
<contrib>Software development</contrib>
</author>
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2018</year>
<holder>Urs Fleisch</holder>
</copyright>
<legalnotice id="fdl-notice">&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2018-08-24</date>
<releaseinfo>3.6.2</releaseinfo>

<abstract>
<para>
&kid3; is an application to edit the ID3v1 and ID3v2 tags in MP3 files in
an efficient way. Also tags in Ogg/Vorbis, Opus, DSF, FLAC, MPC, APE, MP4/AAC, MP2, Speex,
TrueAudio, WavPack, WMA, WAV, AIFF files and tracker modules (MOD, S3M, IT, XM) are supported.
It is easy to set tags of multiple files to the same
values (e.g. album, artist, year and genre in all files of the same album) and
generate the tags from the file name or vice versa.
</para>
</abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdemultimedia</keyword>
<keyword>MP3</keyword>
<keyword>ID3</keyword>
<keyword>ID3v1</keyword>
<keyword>ID3v2</keyword>
<keyword>Ogg</keyword>
<keyword>Vorbis</keyword>
<keyword>FLAC</keyword>
<keyword>MPC</keyword>
<keyword>APE</keyword>
<keyword>Musepack</keyword>
<keyword>MP4</keyword>
<keyword>M4A</keyword>
<keyword>MP2</keyword>
<keyword>Speex</keyword>
<keyword>TrueAudio</keyword>
<keyword>WavPack</keyword>
<keyword>WMA</keyword>
<keyword>WAV</keyword>
<keyword>AIFF</keyword>
<keyword>MOD</keyword>
<keyword>S3M</keyword>
<keyword>IT</keyword>
<keyword>XM</keyword>
<keyword>Opus</keyword>
<keyword>DSF</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<!--begin manpage include
<refmeta>
<refentrytitle>kid3</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
<refname>kid3</refname>
<refname>kid3-qt</refname>
<refname>kid3-cli</refname>
<refpurpose>Kid3 ID3 Tagger</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>
end manpage include-->

<!--change manpage<refsynopsisdiv>--><preface id="synopsis"><title>Synopsis</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kid3</command>
<group>
<arg choice="plain"><option>&doublehyphen;help</option></arg>
<arg choice="plain"><option>&doublehyphen;author</option></arg>
<arg choice="plain"><option>&doublehyphen;version</option></arg>
<arg choice="plain"><option>&doublehyphen;license</option></arg>
<arg choice="plain"><option>&doublehyphen;desktopfile
<filename>FILE</filename></option></arg>
</group>
<arg rep="repeat"><replaceable>FILE</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kid3-qt</command>
<arg><option>&doublehyphen;portable</option></arg>
<arg><option>Qt-options</option></arg>
<arg rep="repeat"><replaceable>FILE</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>kid3-cli</command>
<arg><option>&doublehyphen;portable</option></arg>
<arg><option>&doublehyphen;dbus</option></arg>
<group>
<arg choice="plain"><option>-h</option></arg>
<arg choice="plain"><option>&doublehyphen;help</option></arg>
</group>
<arg><option>-c COMMAND1</option></arg>
<arg rep="repeat"><option>-c COMMAND2</option></arg>
<arg rep="repeat"><replaceable>FILE</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<!--change manpage</refsynopsisdiv>--></preface>

<preface id="options"><title>Options</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>&doublehyphen;portable</option></term>
<listitem><para>Store configuration in file <filename>kid3.ini</filename>
inside application directory.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>&doublehyphen;dbus</option></term>
<listitem><para>Activate the D-Bus interface.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><replaceable>FILE</replaceable></term>
<listitem><para>If <filename><replaceable>FILE</replaceable></filename> is the
path to a directory, it will be opened. If one or more file paths are given,
their common directory is opened and the files are selected.
 </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<sect1 id="options-kid3"><title>kid3</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>&doublehyphen;help</option></term>
<listitem><para>Show help about options.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>&doublehyphen;author</option></term>
<listitem><para>Show author information.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>&doublehyphen;version</option></term>
<listitem><para>Show version information.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>&doublehyphen;license</option></term>
<listitem><para>Show license information.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>&doublehyphen;desktopfile
<filename>FILE</filename></option></term>
<listitem><para>The base file name of the desktop entry for this
application.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="options-kid3-qt"><title>kid3-qt</title>
<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><option>Qt-options</option></term>
<listitem><para>See <citerefentry><refentrytitle>qt5options</refentrytitle>
<manvolnum>7</manvolnum></citerefentry>.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="options-kid3-cli"><title>kid3-cli</title>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-c</option></term>
<listitem><para>Execute a command. Multiple <option>-c</option> options are
possible, they are executed in sequence. See the section about
<link linkend="kid3-cli">kid3-cli</link> for a description of the available
commands.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-h</option>|<option>&doublehyphen;help</option></term>
<listitem><para>Show help about options and commands.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</sect1>

</preface>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>
&kid3; is an application to edit the ID3v1 and ID3v2 tags in MP3 files in
an efficient way. These tags can be edited by most MP3 players, but not in
a very comfortable and efficient way. Moreover the tags in Ogg/Vorbis, Opus, DSF, FLAC,
MPC, APE, MP4/AAC, MP2, Speex, TrueAudio, WavPack, WMA, WAV, AIFF files and
tracker modules (MOD, S3M, IT, XM) are supported too.
</para>
<para>
&kid3; does not grab nor encode
MP3 files, but it is targeted to edit the ID3 tags of all files of an album
in an efficient way, i.e. with as few mouse clicks and key strokes as
possible. Where most other programs can edit either ID3v1 or ID3v2 tags,
&kid3; has full control over both versions, can convert tags between the
two formats and has access to all ID3v2 tags. Tags of multiple files can be
set to the same value, e.g. the artist, album, year and genre of all files
of an album typically have the same values and can be set together. If the
information for the tags is contained in the file name, the tags can be
automatically set from the file name. It is also possible to set the file
name according to the tags found in the file in arbitrary formats.
</para>
<para>
The editing task is further supported by automatic replacement of characters
or substrings, for instance to remove illegal characters from
filenames. Automatic control of upper and lower case characters makes it easy
to use a consistent naming scheme in all tags.
</para>
<para>
The tag information for full albums can be taken from
<ulink url="http://gnudb.org">gnudb.org</ulink>, <ulink
url="http://tracktype.org">TrackType.org</ulink>, <ulink
url="http://musicbrainz.org">MusicBrainz</ulink>,  <ulink
url="http://discogs.com">Discogs</ulink>, <ulink
url="http://www.amazon.com">Amazon</ulink> or other sources of
track lists. The import format is freely configurable by regular expressions.
</para>
<para>
Please report any problems or feature requests to the author.
</para>
</chapter>

<chapter id="using-kid3">
<title>Using Kid3</title>

<sect1 id="kid3-features">
<title>Kid3 features</title>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Edit ID3v1.1 tags</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Edit all ID3v2.3 and ID3v2.4 frames</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Edit tags of multiple files</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Convert between ID3v1 and ID3v2 tags</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Edit MP3, Ogg/Vorbis, Opus, DSF, FLAC, MPC, APE, MP4/AAC, MP2, Speex,
TrueAudio, WavPack, WMA, WAV and AIFF tags</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Generate tags from filename</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Generate tags from the contents of tag fields</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Generate filename from tags</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Generate and change directory names from tags</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Generate playlist file</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Automatic case conversion and string translation</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Import from <ulink url="http://gnudb.org">gnudb.org</ulink>,
<ulink url="http://tracktype.org">TrackType.org</ulink>,
<ulink url="http://musicbrainz.org">MusicBrainz</ulink>,
<ulink url="http://discogs.com">Discogs</ulink>,
<ulink url="http://www.amazon.com">Amazon</ulink>
and other data sources</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Export as CSV, HTML, playlist, Kover XML and other
formats. Exported CSV files can be imported again.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="example-usage">
<title>Example Usage</title>
<para>
This section describes a typical session with &kid3;.
Let's assume we have a directory containing MP3 files with the tracks from
the album "Let's Tag" from the band "One Hit Wonder". The directory is
named in the "artist - album" format, in our case <filename>One Hit Wonder - Let's
Tag</filename>. The directory contains the tracks in the "track title.mp3"
format, which I think is useful because the filenames are short
(important when using mobile MP3 players with small displays) and in the
correct order when sorted alphabetically (important when using hardware MP3
players which play the tracks in alphabetical order or in the order in
which they are burnt on CD and that order is alphabetical when using
<command>mkisofs</command>). Besides this, the artist and album information
is already in the directory name and does not have to be repeated in the filename.
But back to our example, the directory listing looks like this:
</para>
<para><filename>01 Intro.mp3</filename></para>
<para><filename>02 We Only Got This One.mp3</filename></para>
<para><filename>03 Outro.mp3</filename></para>
<para>
These files have no tags yet and we want to generate them using &kid3;. We use
<guimenuitem>Open</guimenuitem> (<guimenu>File</guimenu> menu or toolbar) and
select one of the files in this directory. All files will be displayed in the
file listbox. Lazy as we are, we want to use the information in the directory
and file names to generate tags. Therefore we select all files, then click the
<guilabel>To:</guilabel> <guibutton>Tag 1</guibutton> button in the <guilabel>File</guilabel>
section. This will set the title, artist, album and track values in all files.
To set the year and genre values of all files, we keep all files selected and
type in "2002" for the <guilabel>Year</guilabel> and select "Pop" from the
<guilabel>Genre</guilabel> combobox. To set only these two values, their checkboxes
are automatically checked and all other checkboxes are left unchecked. Now we change the
selection by only selecting the first file and we see that all tags contain
the correct values. The tags of the other files can be verified too by
selecting them one by one. When we are satisfied with the tags, we use
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem> (<guimenu>File</guimenu> menu or toolbar).
Selecting <guimenuitem>Create Playlist</guimenuitem> from the
<guimenu>File</guimenu> menu will generate a file
<filename>One Hit Wonder - Let's Tag.m3u</filename> in the directory.
</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="commands">
<title>Command Reference</title>

<sect1 id="gui-elements">
<title>The GUI Elements</title>
<para>
The &kid3; GUI is separated in five sections: At the left are the file
and directory listboxes, the right side contains the <guilabel>File</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Tag 1</guilabel>, <guilabel>Tag 2</guilabel> and <guilabel>Tag 3
</guilabel> sections.
</para>

<sect2 id="file-list">
<title>File List</title>

<para>
The file list contains the names of all the files in the opened
directory which match the selected file name filter (typically
<filename>*.mp3 *.ogg *.opus *.dsf *.flac *.mpc *.aac *.m4a *.m4b *.m4p *.mp4 *.mp2 *.spx
*.tta *.wv *.wma *.wav *.aiff *.ape</filename>). A single or multiple files can be selected. To
select no file, click into the empty area after the listbox entries. The
selection determines the files which are affected by the operations which
are available by using the buttons described below.
</para>
<para>
Besides <guilabel>Name</guilabel>, also other columns
<guilabel>Size</guilabel>, <guilabel>Type</guilabel>, <guilabel>Date
Modified</guilabel> with file details can be displayed. Columns can be hidden
by unchecking their name in the context menu of the list header. The order of
the columns can be changed by drag'n'drop. The sort order can be toggled by
clicking on the column header.
</para>
<para>
At the left of the names an icon can be displayed: a disc to show that the
file has been modified or information about which tags are present (V1, V2,
V1V2 or NO TAG, no icon is displayed if the file has not been read in yet).
</para>
<para>
Directories are displayed with a folder icon. If a directory is opened, its
files are displayed in a hierarchical tree. By selecting files from
subdirectories, operations can be executed on files in different directories,
which is useful if the music collection is organized with a folder for each
artist containing folders for albums of this artist.
</para>
<para>
Clicking the right mouse button inside the file list opens a context menu with
the following commands:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Expand all</guimenuitem>: Expands all folder trees (only the
current tree if the shift key is pressed)
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Collapse all</guimenuitem>: Collapses all folder trees
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Rename</guimenuitem>: Changes the name of a file
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Move to Trash</guimenuitem>: Moves a file to the trash
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Play</guimenuitem>: Plays a file,
see <link linkend="play">Play</link>. If the selected file is a playlist, the
files of the playlist will be played.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guimenuitem>Edit</guimenuitem>: Edit a playlist,
see <link linkend="edit-playlist">Edit Playlist</link>.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>The subsequent entries are user commands, which can be defined
in the <guilabel>User Actions</guilabel> tab of
<link linkend="configure-kid3">Configure Kid3</link>. The playback on double
click can also be activated there.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="edit-playlist">
<title>Edit Playlist</title>

<para>
A playlist can be created empty or containing the tracks of a folder, see <link
linkend="create-playlist">Create Playlist</link>. The playlist file created in
such a way can be edited by double click or using <guilabel>Edit</guilabel>
from the file list context menu. A dialog with the entries of the playlist is
shown. It is possible to open multiple playlists simultaneously.
</para>
<para>
New entries can be added by drag'n'drop from the file list, a file manager or
another playlist. If an entry is dragged from another playlist, it will be
moved or copied depending on the system. To invoke the other
operation, respectively, the <keycap>Shift</keycap>, <keycap>Ctrl</keycap>
or <keycap>Alt</keycap> (to copy instead of move on macOS)
key has to be pressed. Reordering entries within the playlist is also possible
via drag'n'drop. Alternatively, entries can be moved using the keyboard shortcuts
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>Up</keycap></keycombo>
and
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>Down</keycap></keycombo>
(on macOS <keycap>Command</keycap> has to be pressed instead of <keycap>Ctrl</keycap>).
An entry can be removed using the <keycap>Delete</keycap> key.
</para>
<para>
Please note the following: To drag entries from the file list, they have to be
held at the left side (near the icons), the same gesture at the right side
will perform a multi selection, such an action is hereby still easily possible.
</para>
<para>
When a playlist has been modified, the changes can be stored using
<guibutton>Save</guibutton> or discarded using
<guibutton>Cancel</guibutton>. When the window is closed, a confirmation
prompt is shown if there are unsaved changes.
</para>
<para>
Tracks selected in a playlist will be automatically selected in the file list,
thereby making it possible to edit their tags.
</para>
<para>
To execute actions on a playlist, its file must be selected in the file
list. <guimenuitem>Edit</guimenuitem> from the context menu will lead to the
dialog described in this section, and <guimenuitem>Play</guimenuitem> will
start the media player with the tracks from the playlist. User actions can act
on playlists, for <link linkend="qml-examples">example</link> <guilabel>Export
Playlist Folder</guilabel>, which copies the files from a playlist into a
folder.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="directory-list">
<title>Directory List</title>

<para>
The directory list contains the names of the directories in the opened
directory, as well as the current (<filename>.</filename>) and the parent
(<filename>..</filename>) directory. It allows one to quickly change the directory
without using the <guimenuitem>Open...</guimenuitem> command or drag and drop.
</para>
<para>
Column visibility, order and sorting can be configured as described in the
section about the <link linkend="file-list">file list</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="file">
<title>File</title>

<para>
Shows information about the encoding
(MP3, Ogg, Opus, DSF, FLAC, MPC, APE, MP2, MP4, AAC, Speex, TrueAudio, WavPack, WMA, WAV, AIFF),
bit rate, sample rate, channels and the length of the file.
</para>
<para>
The <guilabel>Name</guilabel> line edit contains the name of the file
(if only a single file is selected). If this name is changed, the file will
be renamed when the Save command is used.
</para>
<para>
The <guilabel>Format</guilabel> combo box and line edit contains the format
to be used when the filename is generated from the first or the second tag.
The filename can contain arbitrary characters, even a directory part separated
by a slash from the file name, but that directory must already exist for the
renaming to succeed. The following special codes are used to insert tag values
into the filename:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>%s %{title} Title (Song)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%a %{artist} Artist</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%l %{album} Album</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%c %{comment} Comment</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%y %{year} Year</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track} Track (e.g. 01)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track.n} Track with field width n (e.g. 001 for %{track.3})</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%T %{tracknumber} Track (without leading zeros, e.g. 1)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%g %{genre} Genre</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>   %{ignore} Ignored when generating tags from the file name</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
The format codes are not restricted to the examples given above. Any frame
name can be used, for instance unified frame names
like <userinput>%{albumartist}</userinput>,
<userinput>%{discnumber.1}</userinput>, <userinput>%{bpm}</userinput> or
format specific names like <userinput>%{popm}</userinput>.
</para>

<para>
It is possible to prepend and append strings to the replacement for a format
code by adding them in double quotes inside the curly braces of a format
code. These strings will only be put into the resulting string if the format
code yields a nonempty value. For example, if the file name shall
both contain the title and the subtitle, one could use
<userinput>%{title} [%{subtitle}]</userinput> in the format string. But this
would result in a string ending with <computeroutput> []</computeroutput> if
no subtitle frame exists for a file. In order to omit the brackets if no
subtitle is present, <userinput>%{title}%{" ["subtitle"]"}</userinput> shall
be used instead. This will omit the brackets, the leading space and the
subtitle if not subtitle exists.
</para>

<para>
A second <guilabel>Format</guilabel> combo box (with arrow down) is used
to generate the tags from the filename. If the format
of the filename does not match this pattern, a few other commonly used formats
are tried.
</para>

<para>
Some commonly used filename formats are already available in the combo box,
but it is also possible to type in some special format into the line edit.
</para>
<para>
Internally, a regular expression is built from the format codes. If advanced
regular expressions are required, the format to generate the tags from the
filenames can be given as a complete regular expression with captures which
are preceded by the format codes, e.g. to extract the track numbers without
removal of leading zeros, a format like "/%{track}(\d+) %{title}(.*)" could be
used.
</para>
<para>
<guilabel>From:</guilabel> <guibutton>Tag 1</guibutton>,
<guibutton>Tag 2</guibutton>: Sets the filename using the selected format
and the first tag or the second tag, respectively.
</para>
<para>
<guilabel>To:</guilabel> <guibutton>Tag 1</guibutton>,
<guibutton>Tag 2</guibutton>: The tags are set from the filename.
First, the format specified in <guilabel>Format</guilabel> is used. If the
existing filename does not match this format, the following formats
are tried:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><filename>Artist - Album/Track Song</filename></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><filename>Album/Track - Artist - Song</filename></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><filename>/Artist - Album - Track - Song</filename></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><filename>Album/Artist - Track - Song</filename></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><filename>Album/Artist - Song</filename></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><filename>Artist/Album/Track Song</filename></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
If a single file is selected, the GUI controls are filled with the values
extracted from the filename. If multiple files are selected, the tags of the
files are directly set according to the filenames.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="tag1">
<title>Tag 1</title>

<para>
The line edit widgets for <guilabel>Title</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Artist</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Album</guilabel>, <guilabel>Comment</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Year</guilabel>, <guilabel>Track</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Genre</guilabel> are used to edit the corresponding value in the
first tag of the selected files. The value will be changed when the file
selection is altered or before operations like <guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>
and <guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem> and when the corresponding
check box at the left of the field name is checked. This is useful to
change only some values and leave the other values unchanged.
</para>
<para>
If a single file is selected, all check boxes are checked and the line edit
widgets contain the values found in the tags of this file. If a tag is not
found in the file, the corresponding empty value is displayed, which is an
empty string for the <guilabel>Title</guilabel>, <guilabel>Artist</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Album</guilabel> and <guilabel>Comment</guilabel> line edits, 0 for the
numerical <guilabel>Year</guilabel> and <guilabel>Track</guilabel> edits and
an empty selected value for the <guilabel>Genre</guilabel>
combo box. The values can be changed and if the corresponding check box is
checked, they will be set for the selected file after the selection is
changed. The file is then marked as modified by a disk symbol in the file
listbox but remains unchanged until the <guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>
command is used.
</para>
<para>
If multiple files are selected, only the values which are identical in all
selected files are displayed. In all other controls, the empty values as
described above are displayed. All check boxes are unchecked to avoid
unwanted changes. If a value has to be set for all selected files, it can
be edited and the checkbox has to be set. The values will be set for all
selected files when the selection is changed and can be saved using the
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem> command.
</para>
<para>
The check boxes also control the operation of most commands affecting the
tags, such as copy, paste and transfer between tags 1 and 2. To make it
easier to use with multiple files where all check boxes are unchecked, these
commands behave in the same way when all check boxes are checked and when all
check boxes are unchecked.
</para>
<para>
<guibutton>From Tag 2</guibutton>: The tag 1 fields are set from the
corresponding values in tag 2.
If a single file is selected, the GUI controls are filled with the values
from tag 2. If multiple files are selected, the tags of the
files are directly set.
</para>
<para>
<guibutton>Copy</guibutton>: The copy buffer is filled with the Tag 1 values.
Only values with checked checkbox will be used in subsequent Paste commands.
</para>
<para>
<guibutton>Paste</guibutton>: Pastes the values from the copy buffer into the
GUI controls.
</para>
<para>
<guibutton>Remove</guibutton>: This will set all GUI controls to their empty
values which results in removing all values. The saved file will then contain
no tag 1.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="tag2">
<title>Tag 2</title>

<para>
The GUI controls function in the same way as described for the
<guilabel>Tag 1</guilabel> section, but the size of the strings is not limited.
</para>
<para>
For the tag 2 <guilabel>Genre</guilabel> you can also use your own names
besides the genres listed in the combo box, just type the name into the line
edit.
</para>
<para>
The tag 2 can not only contain the same values
as the tag 1, the format is built in a flexible way from several frames
which are themselves composed of several fields. The tag 2 table shows
all the frames which are available in the selected file.
</para>
<para>
<guibutton>Edit</guibutton>: This will open a window which allows one to edit all fields
of the selected frame.
If multiple files are selected, the edited fields are applied to all selected files
which contain such a frame.
</para>
<para>
<guibutton>Add</guibutton>: A requester to select the frame type will appear
and a frame of the selected type can be edited and added to the file. This
works also to add a frame to multiple selected files.
</para>
<para>
<guibutton>Delete</guibutton>: Deletes the selected frame in the selected files.
</para>
<para>
<guilabel>Drag album artwork here</guilabel> is shown if the file does not
contain embedded cover art. A picture can be added using drag and drop from a
browser or file manager and will be displayed here. Picture frames can be
edited or added by double clicking on this control.
</para>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="tag3">
<title>Tag 3</title>

<para>
Some files can have more than two tags, and a third tag section is visible.
The following file types can have such a <guilabel>Tag 3</guilabel> section:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>
MP3 files can have an ID3v1.1 tag, an ID3v2 (2.3.0 or 2.4.0) tag and in the
third section an APE tag. Such APE tags are used for replay gain
information. In the <guilabel>Tag 3</guilabel> section, this information is
visible, and the APE tag can be removed with the <guibutton>Remove</guibutton>
button.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
The RIFF INFO chunk of WAV files is available in the <guilabel>Tag 3
</guilabel> section because the <guilabel>Tag 1</guilabel> section is
dedicated to ID3v1.1 tags and handles their restrictions. The
<guilabel>Tag 2</guilabel> is still used for ID3v2.4.0 tags, which are also
supported for WAV files, but RIFF INFO chunks seem to be supported better.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
FLAC files normally use a Vorbis comment for their meta data. However, there
are FLAC files which have IDv1 and ID3v2 tags, which can be found in the
<guilabel>Tag 1</guilabel> and <guilabel>Tag 3</guilabel> sections.
ID3 tags in FLAC files are only supported by TagLib, therefore the
OggFlacMetadata plugin has to be disabled in the <guilabel>Plugins</guilabel>
tab of the <link linkend="configure-kid3">settings</link>.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

The GUI controls work in the same way as in the <guilabel>Tag 2</guilabel>
section.
</para>

</sect2>

<!--begin manpage ignore-->
<sect2 id="frame-list">
<title>Frame List</title>

<para>
&kid3; can edit most of the frames for all of the supported file types. Some
frames are accessed using unified names, so that they can be exchanged
between files with different formats. Frames which are not unified can be accessed as
format specific frames.
</para>

<table id="table-frame-list">
  <title>Mapping of Unified Frame Types to Various Formats</title>
   <tgroup cols="7">
     <thead>
       <row><entry>Unified</entry>           <entry>ID3v2.3</entry> <entry>ID3v2.4</entry> <entry>MP4</entry>            <entry>ASF</entry>                        <entry>Vorbis</entry>                 <entry>RIFF</entry></row>
     </thead>
     <tbody>
       <row><entry>Title</entry>             <entry>TIT2</entry>    <entry>TIT2</entry>    <entry>©nam</entry>           <entry>Title</entry>                      <entry>TITLE</entry>                  <entry>INAM</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Artist</entry>            <entry>TPE1</entry>    <entry>TPE1</entry>    <entry>©ART</entry>           <entry>Author</entry>                     <entry>ARTIST</entry>                 <entry>IART</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Album</entry>             <entry>TALB</entry>    <entry>TALB</entry>    <entry>©alb</entry>           <entry>WM/AlbumTitle</entry>              <entry>ALBUM</entry>                  <entry>IPRD</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Comment</entry>           <entry>COMM</entry>    <entry>COMM</entry>    <entry>©cmt</entry>           <entry>Description</entry>                <entry>COMMENT</entry>                <entry>ICMT</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Date</entry>              <entry>TYER</entry>    <entry>TDRC</entry>    <entry>©day</entry>           <entry>WM/Year</entry>                    <entry>DATE</entry>                   <entry>ICRD</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Track Number</entry>      <entry>TRCK</entry>    <entry>TRCK</entry>    <entry>trkn</entry>           <entry>WM/TrackNumber</entry>             <entry>TRACKNUMBER</entry>            <entry>IPRT or ITRK</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Genre</entry>             <entry>TCON</entry>    <entry>TCON</entry>    <entry>©gen</entry>           <entry>WM/Genre</entry>                   <entry>GENRE</entry>                  <entry>IGNR</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Album Artist</entry>      <entry>TPE2</entry>    <entry>TPE2</entry>    <entry>aART</entry>           <entry>WM/AlbumArtist</entry>             <entry>ALBUMARTIST</entry>            <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Arranger</entry>          <entry>IPLS</entry>    <entry>TIPL</entry>    <entry>ARRANGER</entry>       <entry>WM/Producer</entry>                <entry>ARRANGER</entry>               <entry>IENG</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Author</entry>            <entry>TOLY</entry>    <entry>TOLY</entry>    <entry>AUTHOR</entry>         <entry></entry>                           <entry>AUTHOR</entry>                 <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>BPM</entry>               <entry>TBPM</entry>    <entry>TBPM</entry>    <entry>tmpo</entry>           <entry>WM/BeatsPerMinute</entry>          <entry>BPM</entry>                    <entry>IBPM</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Catalog Number</entry>    <entry>TXXX:CATALOGNUMBER</entry> <entry>TXXX:CATALOGNUMBER</entry>         <entry></entry> <entry></entry>           <entry>CATALOGNUMBER</entry>          <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Compilation</entry>       <entry>TCMP</entry>    <entry>TCMP</entry>    <entry>cpil</entry>           <entry></entry>                           <entry>COMPILATION</entry>            <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Composer</entry>          <entry>TCOM</entry>    <entry>TCOM</entry>    <entry>©wrt</entry>           <entry>WM/Composer</entry>                <entry>COMPOSER</entry>               <entry>IMUS</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Conductor</entry>         <entry>TPE3</entry>    <entry>TPE3</entry>    <entry>CONDUCTOR</entry>      <entry>WM/Conductor</entry>               <entry>CONDUCTOR</entry>              <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Copyright</entry>         <entry>TCOP</entry>    <entry>TCOP</entry>    <entry>cprt</entry>           <entry>Copyright</entry>                  <entry>COPYRIGHT</entry>              <entry>ICOP</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Disc Number</entry>       <entry>TPOS</entry>    <entry>TPOS</entry>    <entry>disk</entry>           <entry>WM/PartOfSet</entry>               <entry>DISCNUMBER</entry>             <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Encoded-by</entry>        <entry>TENC</entry>    <entry>TENC</entry>    <entry>©enc</entry>           <entry>WM/EncodedBy</entry>               <entry>ENCODED-BY</entry>             <entry>ITCH</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Encoder Settings</entry>  <entry>TSSE</entry>    <entry>TSSE</entry>    <entry>©too</entry>           <entry>WM/EncodingSettings</entry>        <entry>ENCODERSETTINGS</entry>        <entry>ISFT</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Encoding Time</entry>     <entry></entry>        <entry>TDEN</entry>    <entry></entry>               <entry>WM/EncodingTime</entry>            <entry>ENCODINGTIME</entry>           <entry>IDIT</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Grouping</entry>          <entry>TIT1</entry>    <entry>TIT1</entry>    <entry>©grp</entry>           <entry>WM/ContentGroupDescription</entry> <entry>GROUPING</entry>               <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Initial Key</entry>       <entry>TKEY</entry>    <entry>TKEY</entry>    <entry></entry>               <entry>WM/InitialKey</entry>              <entry>INITIALKEY</entry>             <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>ISRC</entry>              <entry>TSRC</entry>    <entry>TSRC</entry>    <entry>ISRC</entry>           <entry>WM/ISRC</entry>                    <entry>ISRC</entry>                   <entry>ISRC</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Language</entry>          <entry>TLAN</entry>    <entry>TLAN</entry>    <entry>LANGUAGE</entry>       <entry>WM/Language</entry>                <entry>LANGUAGE</entry>               <entry>ILNG</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Lyricist</entry>          <entry>TEXT</entry>    <entry>TEXT</entry>    <entry>LYRICIST</entry>       <entry>WM/Writer</entry>                  <entry>LYRICIST</entry>               <entry>IWRI</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Lyrics</entry>            <entry>USLT</entry>    <entry>USLT</entry>    <entry>©lyr</entry>           <entry>WM/Lyrics</entry>                  <entry>LYRICS</entry>                 <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Media</entry>             <entry>TMED</entry>    <entry>TMED</entry>    <entry>SOURCEMEDIA</entry>    <entry></entry>                           <entry>SOURCEMEDIA</entry>            <entry>IMED</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Mood</entry>              <entry></entry>        <entry>TMOO</entry>    <entry></entry>               <entry>WM/Mood</entry>                    <entry>MOOD</entry>                   <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Original Album</entry>    <entry>TOAL</entry>    <entry>TOAL</entry>    <entry>ORIGINALALBUM</entry>  <entry>WM/OriginalAlbumTitle</entry>      <entry>ORIGINALALBUM</entry>          <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Original Artist</entry>   <entry>TOPE</entry>    <entry>TOPE</entry>    <entry>ORIGINALARTIST</entry> <entry>WM/OriginalArtist</entry>          <entry>ORIGINALARTIST</entry>         <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Original Date</entry>     <entry>TORY</entry>    <entry>TDOR</entry>    <entry>ORIGINALDATE</entry>   <entry>WM/OriginalReleaseYear</entry>     <entry>ORIGINALDATE</entry>           <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Part</entry>              <entry></entry>        <entry>TSST</entry>    <entry>PART</entry>           <entry>WM/SubTitleDescription</entry>     <entry>PART</entry>                   <entry>PRT1</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Performer</entry>         <entry>IPLS</entry>    <entry>TMCL</entry>    <entry>PERFORMER</entry>      <entry></entry>                           <entry>PERFORMER</entry>              <entry>ISTR</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Picture</entry>           <entry>APIC</entry>    <entry>APIC</entry>    <entry>covr</entry>           <entry>WM/Picture</entry>                 <entry>METADATA_BLOCK_PICTURE</entry> <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Publisher</entry>         <entry>TPUB</entry>    <entry>TPUB</entry>    <entry>PUBLISHER</entry>      <entry>WM/Publisher</entry>               <entry>PUBLISHER</entry>              <entry>IPUB</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Rating</entry>            <entry>POPM</entry>    <entry>POPM</entry>    <entry>rate</entry>           <entry>WM/SharedUserRating</entry>        <entry>RATING</entry>                 <entry>IRTD</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Release Country</entry>   <entry>TXXX:RELEASECOUNTRY</entry> <entry>TXXX:RELEASECOUNTRY</entry>       <entry></entry> <entry></entry>           <entry>RELEASECOUNTRY</entry>         <entry>ICNT</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Release Date</entry>      <entry></entry>        <entry>TDRL</entry>    <entry>RELEASEDATE</entry>    <entry></entry>                           <entry>RELEASEDATE</entry>            <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Remixer</entry>           <entry>TPE4</entry>    <entry>TPE4</entry>    <entry>REMIXER</entry>        <entry>WM/ModifiedBy</entry>              <entry>REMIXER</entry>                <entry>IEDT</entry></row>
       <row><entry>Sort Album</entry>        <entry>TSOA</entry>    <entry>TSOA</entry>    <entry>soal</entry>           <entry>WM/AlbumSortOrder</entry>          <entry>ALBUMSORT</entry>              <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Sort Album Artist</entry> <entry>TSO2</entry>    <entry>TSO2</entry>    <entry>soaa</entry>           <entry></entry>                           <entry>ALBUMARTISTSORT</entry>        <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Sort Artist</entry>       <entry>TSOP</entry>    <entry>TSOP</entry>    <entry>soar</entry>           <entry>WM/ArtistSortOrder</entry>         <entry>ARTISTSORT</entry>             <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Sort Composer</entry>     <entry>TSOC</entry>    <entry>TSOC</entry>    <entry>soco</entry>           <entry></entry>                           <entry>COMPOSERSORT</entry>           <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Sort Name</entry>         <entry>TSOT</entry>    <entry>TSOT</entry>    <entry>sonm</entry>           <entry>WM/TitleSortOrder</entry>          <entry>TITLESORT</entry>              <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Subtitle</entry>          <entry>TIT3</entry>    <entry>TIT3</entry>    <entry>SUBTITLE</entry>       <entry>WM/SubTitle</entry>                <entry>SUBTITLE</entry>               <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>Website</entry>           <entry>WOAR</entry>    <entry>WOAR</entry>    <entry>WEBSITE</entry>        <entry>WM/AuthorURL</entry>               <entry>WEBSITE</entry>                <entry>IBSU</entry></row>
       <row><entry>WWW Audio File</entry>    <entry>WOAF</entry>    <entry>WOAF</entry>    <entry></entry>               <entry>WM/AudioFileURL</entry>            <entry>WWWAUDIOFILE</entry>           <entry></entry></row>
       <row><entry>WWW Audio Source</entry>  <entry>WOAS</entry>    <entry>WOAS</entry>    <entry></entry>               <entry>WM/AudioSourceURL</entry>          <entry>WWWAUDIOSOURCE</entry>         <entry></entry></row>
     </tbody>
   </tgroup>
 </table>

<para>
Remarks concerning the mappings to unified frame names:
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>
The number of unified frame names is limited by the fact that a sensible
mapping shall be possible for all supported file formats. Most tags support
frames with arbitrary names; these will be used if no specific frame is
available (e.g. the names in uppercase in the column MP4). If no such
possibility exists, some frame types may not be supported for the format,
e.g. Author and Performer for ASF (WMA).
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
The mappings are not chosen arbitrarily, they are geared to the usage of the
frames in other applications and devices. Thus the ID3v2 frame "TPE2 -
Band/orchestra/accompaniment" does not suggest its usage as Album Artist, but
this is commonly used. The actual meaning for ID3v2 on the other hand is the
reason why this frame is used for the orchestra when importing (e.g. from
Discogs), although this may seem a bit strange for other tag formats.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
The mappings are not always bijective. So ID3v2.3 uses an IPLS frame for both
Arranger and Performer. When reading back, both frames are displayed as
"Arranger".
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
The frames Arranger and Performer use a particular format for their contents:
"involvement 1|involvee 1|involvement 2|involvee 2|...", for
instance "Chorus Master|Ernst Dunshirn|Soprano Vocals|Anna Netrebko". This
will create IPLS (ID3v2.3) or TIPL/TMCL (ID3v2.4) frames with a string list in
the specified format (the "|" is used as a separator between the strings).
Values in this format are also set when importing data from servers which
offer this information.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

</sect2>
<!--end manpage ignore-->

<sect2 id="synchronized-lyrics">
<title>Synchronized Lyrics and Event Timing Codes</title>

<para>
For information synchronized with the audio data, a specific editor is
available. These frames are supported for ID3v2.3.0 and ID3v2.4.0 tags. To add
such a frame, the specific frame name has to be selected in the list which
appears when the <guibutton>Add</guibutton> button is clicked - <guilabel>Synchronized Lyrics</guilabel> or <guilabel>Event Timing
Codes</guilabel>, respectively. The editor is the same for both types, for the
event timing codes, only a predefined set of events is available whereas for
the synchronized lyrics, text has to be entered. In the following, editing
synchronized lyrics is explained.
</para>
<para>
A file having an ID3v2 tag is selected, the lyrics editor is entered using
<guibutton>Add</guibutton> and selecting <guilabel>Synchronized
Lyrics</guilabel>. For an existing Synchronized Lyrics frame, it is selected and
<guibutton>Edit</guibutton> is clicked. The player is automatically opened
with the current file so that the file can be played and paused to synchronize
lyrics.
</para>
<para>
The settings at the top of the SYLT editor normally do not have to be
changed. If the lyrics contains characters which are not present in the Latin 1
character set, changing the text encoding to UTF16 (or UTF8 for ID3v2.4.0) is
advisable. For English lyrics and maximum compatibility, ISO-8859-1 should be
used.
</para>
<para>
The <guilabel>Lyrics</guilabel> section has five buttons at the
top. <guibutton>Add</guibutton> will add a new time event in the table. The
time is taken from the position of the player, thus adding an entry while
playing the track will add a line for the currently played position. The
events in the table have to be chronologically ordered, therefore the row will
be inserted accordingly. Entries with an invalid time are treated specially:
If the currently selected row has an invalid time, its time stamp will be
replaced by the current time instead of adding a new row. If the current time
is not invalid, the first row with an invalid time will be used if
present. This behavior should facilitate adding time stamps if the lyrics text
is already in the table but the time stamps are missing (which is the case
when importing unsynchronized lyrics). Note that the invalid time is
represented as 00:00.00, i.e. the same as the time at the absolute beginning
of the track, which is not invalid. To make a time invalid, press the
<keysym>Delete</keysym> key, or use <guimenu>Clear</guimenu> from the context
menu. New rows inserted using <guimenu>Insert row</guimenu> from the context
menu or created when importing unsynchronized lyrics with
<guibutton>From Clipboard</guibutton> or <guibutton>Import</guibutton> also
contain invalid time stamps. Rows in the table can be deleted by clicking the
<guibutton>Delete</guibutton> button or using <guimenu>Delete rows</guimenu>
from the context menu.
</para>
<para>
Synchronized lyrics can be imported from a file using
<guibutton>Import</guibutton>. The expected format is simple or enhanced
LRC. If the selected file does not contain a square bracket in the first line,
it is supposed to be a simple text file with unsynchronized lyrics. The lines
from such a file are then imported having invalid time stamps. The time
information can be added using the <guibutton>Add</guibutton> button or
by manual entry. It is also possible to import lyrics via copy-paste using
<guilabel>From Clipboard</guilabel>. Synchronized lyrics can be written to LRC
files using <guibutton>Export</guibutton>. Note that only entries with valid
time stamps will be exported and that the entries will be sorted by
time. Entries with invalid time won't be stored in the SYLT frame either, so
make sure to include all timing information before leaving the dialog.
</para>
<para>
The <ulink url="http://id3.org/id3v2.4.0-frames">ID3 specification</ulink>
suggests a time stamp for each syllable. However most players only support the
granularity of a line or sentence. To support both use cases, &kid3; follows
the same conventions as <ulink
url="http://www.compuphase.com/software_sylteditor.htm">SYLT
Editor</ulink>. Text which is entered into the table is assumed to start a new
line unless it starts with a space or a hyphen. Exceptions to this rule are
possible by starting a line with an underscore ('_') to force continuation or
a hash mark ('#') to force a new line. These escape characters are not stored
inside the SYLT frame. Inside the SYLT frame, new lines start with a line feed
character (hex 0A) whereas continuations do not. When reading SYLT frames,
&kid3; checks if the first entry starts with a line feed. If this is not the
case, it is assumed that all entries are new lines and that no syllable
continuations are used.
</para>
<para>
While the track is played, the row associated with the current playing
position is highlighted, so that the correctness of the synchronization
information can be verified. If an offset has to be added to one or more time
stamps, this can be accomplished with the <guimenu>Add offset</guimenu>
context menu. Negative values can be used to reduce the time. Using
<guimenu>Seek to position</guimenu> in the context menu, it is possible to set
the playing position to the time of the selected row.
</para>
<para>
<emphasis>Recommended procedure to add new synchronized lyrics</emphasis>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Get the unsynchronized lyrics, e.g. using
<menuchoice><guimenu>Lyrics</guimenu><guimenuitem>Embed
Lyrics</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from the file list context
menu.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Copy the unsynchronized lyrics to the clipboard, just go to
the <guilabel>Lyrics</guilabel> row in the frame table and press
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>C</keycap></keycombo>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Add a synchronized lyrics frame
(<guibutton>Add...</guibutton>, <guilabel>Synchronized
Lyrics</guilabel>, <guibutton>OK</guibutton>), click
<guibutton>From Clipboard</guibutton>.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Now all lines from the unsynchronized lyrics are in the table,
all time stamps are invalid (0:0:0.00). You can delete empty entries
beforehand.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Start playing the song by clicking the play button
<guibutton>&#9658;</guibutton> in the play toolbar at the bottom of the main
window.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>When the next lyrics line with invalid timestamp comes, click
<guibutton>Add</guibutton> or press
<keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>A</keycap></keycombo>, the timestamp
will be updated.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Continue like this until all timestamps are set. If you missed
something, stop playback and clear the timestamps using the
<keycap>Delete</keycap> key or by selecting them and using
<guimenuitem>Clear</guimenuitem> from the context menu. To restart playback
from a given timestamp, use <guimenuitem>Seek to position</guimenuitem> from
the context menu.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="file-menu">
<title>The File Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>O</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens a directory.</action> All files matching the selected
file name filter will be displayed in the file listbox
and the chosen file is selected.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open Recent</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens a recently opened directory.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>D</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Open Directory...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens a directory.</action> All files matching the selected
file name filter will be displayed in the file listbox.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>S</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Save</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Saves all changed files in the directory.</action> The
changed files are marked with a disk symbol in the file listbox. If any file
names have been changed, those files will be renamed.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Revert</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Reverts the changes of one or multiple files.</action> If no
files are selected in the file listbox, the changes of all files will be
reverted, else only the changes of the selected files are reverted.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="import">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Import...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>The <action>Import dialog</action> can be used to import data
directly from a freedb.org server, from a MusicBrainz server, from
Discogs, Amazon or other sources of album track lists in textual format.
</para>
<para id="import-freedb">
Import from a freedb.org server is possible using a dialog which appears when
<guibutton>From Server:</guibutton>
<guibutton>gnudb.org</guibutton> or <guibutton>TrackType.org</guibutton>
is selected. The artist and album name
to search for can be entered in the two topmost fields,
the albums which match the
query will be displayed when <guibutton>Find</guibutton> is clicked and the
results from <ulink url="http://www.gnudb.org">www.gnudb.org</ulink> are
received. Importing the track data for an album is
done by double-clicking the album in the list. The freedb.org server to import
from can be selected as well as the CGI path. The
imported data is displayed in the preview table of the import dialog.
When satisfied with the displayed tracks, they
can be imported by terminating the import dialog with
<guibutton>OK</guibutton>.
</para>
<para id="import-discogs">
A search on the Discogs server can be performed using
<guibutton>Discogs</guibutton>. As in the <guibutton>gnudb.org</guibutton> dialog,
you can enter artist and album and then choose from a list of releases.
If <guilabel>Standard Tags</guilabel> is marked, the standard information is
imported, e.g. artist, album, and title.
If <guilabel>Additional Tags</guilabel> is marked, more information is
imported if available, e.g. performers, arrangers, or the publisher.
If <guilabel>Cover Art</guilabel> is marked, cover art will be downloaded if
available.
</para>
<para id="import-amazon">
A search on Amazon can be performed using
<guibutton>Amazon</guibutton>. As in the <guibutton>gnudb.org</guibutton> dialog,
you can enter artist and album and then choose from a list of releases.
If <guilabel>Additional Tags</guilabel> is marked, more information is
imported if available, e.g. performers, arrangers, or the publisher.
If <guilabel>Cover Art</guilabel> is marked, cover art will be downloaded if
available.
</para>
<para id="import-musicbrainzrelease">
You can search in the same way in the release database of MusicBrainz
using <guibutton>From MusicBrainz Release</guibutton>.
The workflow is the same as described for <guibutton>From
gnudb.org</guibutton>.
</para>
<para id="import-musicbrainz">
Import from a MusicBrainz server is possible using the dialog which appears when
<guibutton>From MusicBrainz Fingerprint</guibutton> is selected. The Server can be
selected as in the freedb import dialog. Below is a table displaying the
imported track data. The right column shows the state of the MusicBrainz
query, which starts with "Pending" when the dialog is opened. Then the
fingerprint is looked up and if it does not yield a result, another lookup
using the tags in the file is tried. Thus it can be helpful for a successful
MusicBrainz query to store known information (e.g. artist and album) in the
tags before the import. If a result was found, the search ends in the state
"Recognized", otherwise nothing was found or multiple ambiguous results and one
of them has to be selected by the user.
<guibutton>OK</guibutton> and <guibutton>Apply</guibutton> use the imported
data, <guibutton>Cancel</guibutton> closes the dialog. The closing can take a
while since the whole MusicBrainz machinery has to be shut down.
</para>

<para id="import-text">
For the import of textual data, <guibutton>From File/Clipboard</guibutton>
opens a subdialog, where several preconfigured import formats are
available. The first two, "CSV unquoted" and "CSV quoted" can be used to
import data which was exported by the Export dialog. The CSV data can be
edited with a spreadsheet, and shall be written using tabs as
delimiters. Import should then be possible using "CSV quoted", which is more
flexible than "CSV unquoted". However, its fields cannot contain any double
quotes. If you only export from &kid3; and import later, "CSV unquoted" can be
used as a simple format for this purpose. Note that there are also "Export
CSV" and "Import CSV" commands in the context menu of the file list, which use
scripts to export and import CSV data in a more complete, powerful and
flexible way.
</para>

<para>
The next format, "freedb HTML
text", can be used to copy information from an HTML page of
<ulink url="http://freedb.org">freedb.org</ulink>. Search an album in freedb
and if the desired information is displayed in the web browser, copy the
contents to the clipboard. Then click the <guibutton>From
Clipboard</guibutton> button and the imported tracks will be displayed in the
preview table at the top of the dialog. If you are satisfied with the imported
data, terminate the dialog with <guibutton>OK</guibutton>, which will insert
the data into the tags of the current directory. The destination
(<guilabel>Tag 1</guilabel>, <guilabel>Tag 2</guilabel> or
<guilabel>Tag 1 and Tag 2</guilabel>) can be selected
with a combo box. The files in the current directory should be in the correct
track order to get their tags assigned. This is the case if they are numbered.
</para>
<para>
The next preconfigured import format, "freedb HTML source", can be used, if
the data is available as an HTML document. Import is possible using the
<guibutton>From File</guibutton> button, which opens a file selector, or
copying its contents from an editor and then importing from clipboard. This
format can be useful for offline import, although the HTML document could also
be opened in a browser and then be imported in the first format via the clipboard.
</para>
<para>
More preconfigured formats, e.g. "Track Title Time", are available. An empty
custom format can be created with <guibutton>Add</guibutton> to be set by the
user. Two lines below the format name can be
set with a regular expression to capture the fields from the import text. The
first regular expression will be parsed once per document to gather per-album
data such as artist, album, year and genre. The second line is tried to match
from the start of the document to the end to get track data, usually number
and title. The regular expressions include all the features offered by Qt,
which is most of the what Perl offers. Bracketing constructs "(..)" create
capture buffers for the fields to import and are preceded by &kid3; specific
codes to specify which field to capture. The codes are the same as used for
the filename format, besides the codes listed below, any frame name is
possible:
</para>

<para id="format-codes">
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>%s %{title} Title (Song)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%a %{artist} Artist</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%l %{album} Album</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%c %{comment} Comment</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%y %{year} Year</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track} Track</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%g %{genre} Genre</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%d %{duration} Duration</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

<para>
For example, a track regular expression (second line) to import from an
.m3u playlist could be "%{track}(\d+)\s+%{title}(\S[^\r\n]*)\.mp3[\r\n]". All formats can
be changed by editing the regular expressions and the name and then clicking
<guibutton>Save Settings</guibutton>. They will be stored in the
<filename>kid3rc</filename> file in the configuration directory. This file can
be directly edited to have more import formats or it can be deleted to revert
to the default formats. Formats can be deleted
using <guibutton>Remove</guibutton>.
</para>
<para>
<guibutton>Accuracy</guibutton> shows an estimation of how good the
imported information matches the given tracks. It uses track durations or
file names to calculate the level of similarity in percent.
<guibutton>Cover Art</guibutton> shows the URL of the album cover image
which will be downloaded.
</para>
<para>
To check whether the imported tracks match the current set of files, the
duration of the imported tracks can be compared with the duration of the
files. This option can be enabled with the checkbox <guibutton>Check maximum
allowable time difference</guibutton> and the maximum tolerated difference in
time can be set in seconds. If a mismatch in a length is detected, the length
is displayed with a red background in the preview table.
</para>
<para>
It the files are ordered differently than the imported tracks, their assigned
tracks have to be changed. This task can be facilitated using
the <guilabel>Match with</guilabel>
buttons <guibutton>Length</guibutton>, <guibutton>Track</guibutton>,
and <guibutton>Title</guibutton>, which will reorder the tracks according to
the corresponding field. To correct the assignments manually, a track can be
dragged with the left mouse button and the <keycap>Ctrl</keycap> key hold
down, and then dropped at the new location.
</para>
<para>
When the import dialog is opened, it contains the actual contents of the
tags. The tag type (Tag 1, Tag 2, Tag 1 and Tag 2) can be selected using the
<guilabel>Destination</guilabel> combo box. The button on the right of this
combo box can be used to revert the table to the current contents of the
tags. The checkboxes in the first table column can be used to select the
tracks which are imported. This can be useful if a folder contains the tracks
of both CDs of a double CD and only the tracks of the second CD have to be
imported.
</para>
<para>
To identify the tracks which are imported, it is possible to display the file
names or the full paths to the files using the context menu of the table
header. The values in the import table can be edited.  The revert-button to
the right of the <guilabel>Destination</guilabel> combo box can be used to
restore the contents of the tags, which can also be useful after changing the
<guilabel>Destination</guilabel>.
</para>
<para>
Almost all dialogs feature a <guibutton>Save Settings</guibutton> button,
which can be used to store the dialog specific settings and the window size
persistently.
</para>

<para id="import-tags">
<guibutton>From Tags</guibutton> leads to a subdialog to set tag frames from
the contents of other tag frames. This can be used to simply copy information
between tags or extract a part from one frame and insert it in another.
</para>
<para>
As in the <link linkend="import-text">import from file/clipboard</link>,
there are freely configurable formats to perform different operations. Already
preconfigured are formats to copy the Album value to Album Artist, Composer or
Conductor, and to extract the Track Number from Title fields which contain a
number. There is also a format to extract a Subtitle from a Title field.
</para>
<para>
The following example explains how to add a custom format, which sets the
information from the Subtitle field also in the Comment field. Create a new
format using <guibutton>Add</guibutton> and set a new name, e.g.
"Subtitle to Comment". Then enter "%{subtitle}" in
<guilabel>Source</guilabel> and "%{comment}(.*)" for
<guilabel>Extraction</guilabel> and click <guibutton>Save
Settings</guibutton>.
</para>
<para>
The expression in <guilabel>Source</guilabel> can contain
<link linkend="format-codes">format codes</link> for arbitrary tag frames,
multiple codes can be used to combine the contents from different frames. For
each track, a text is generated from its tags using the <guilabel>Source
</guilabel> format, and the regular expression from
<guilabel>Extraction</guilabel> is applied to this text to set new values for
the tags. Format codes are used before the capturing parentheses to specify
the tag frame where the captured text shall be stored. It works in the same
way as for the <link linkend="import-text">import from file/clipboard</link>.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Import from gnudb.org...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Import from a freedb.org server
using gnudb.org album search.</action> This menu
item opens the same import dialog as <guimenuitem>Import...</guimenuitem>, but
opens directly the <guibutton>gnudb.org</guibutton>
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Import from TrackType.org...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Import from the TrackType.org server.</action> This menu
item opens the same import dialog as <guimenuitem>Import...</guimenuitem>, but
opens directly the <guibutton>TrackType.org</guibutton>
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Import from Discogs...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Import from the Discogs server.</action>
This menu item opens the same import dialog as
<guimenuitem>Import...</guimenuitem>, but
opens directly the <guibutton>From Discogs</guibutton>
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Import from Amazon...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Import from Amazon.</action>
This menu item opens the same import dialog as
<guimenuitem>Import...</guimenuitem>, but
opens directly the <guibutton>From Amazon</guibutton>
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Import from MusicBrainz Release...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Import from the MusicBrainz release database.</action>
This menu item opens the same import dialog as
<guimenuitem>Import...</guimenuitem>, but
opens directly the <guibutton>From MusicBrainz Release</guibutton>
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Import from MusicBrainz Fingerprint...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Import from a MusicBrainz server.</action> This menu
item opens the same import dialog as <guimenuitem>Import...</guimenuitem>, but
opens directly the <guibutton>From MusicBrainz Fingerprint</guibutton>
dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="batch-import">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Automatic Import...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
<action>Automatic Import</action> allows one to import information for multiple
albums from various web services. If directories are selected in the file
list, track data for the selected directories will be imported. If no
directory is selected, all directories in the file list will be imported.
</para>
<para>
The tag type (Tag 1, Tag 2, Tag 1 and Tag 2) can be selected using the
<guilabel>Destination</guilabel> combo box.
</para>
<para>
Profiles determine which servers will be contacted to fetch album
information. Some profiles are predefined (All, MusicBrainz, Discogs,
Cover Art), custom profiles can be added using the
<guibutton>Add</guibutton> button at the right of the
<guilabel>Profile</guilabel> combo box.
</para>
<para>
The table below shows the servers which will be used when importing album
information using the selected profile. The import process for an album is
finished if all required information has been found, so the order of the
rows in the table is important. It can be changed using the
<guibutton>Move Up</guibutton> and <guibutton>Move Down</guibutton> buttons.
<guibutton>Edit</guibutton> can be used to change an existing entry. The
<guibutton>Server</guibutton> selection offers the same servers as can be
used in the import functions. <guilabel>Standard Tags</guilabel>,
<guilabel>Additional Tags</guilabel>, <guilabel>Cover Art</guilabel>
determine the information which shall be fetched from the server. Finally,
<guilabel>Accuracy</guilabel> is the minimum accuracy which must be
achieved to accept the imported data. If the accuracy is insufficient, the
next server in the list will be tried. The same dialog containing the server
properties appears when <guibutton>Add</guibutton> is clicked to add a new
server entry. Existing entries can be deleted using
<guibutton>Remove</guibutton>.
</para>
<para>
To launch an automatic batch import with the selected profile, click
<guibutton>Start</guibutton>. Details about the running import are displayed
at the top of the dialog. The process can be aborted with the
<guibutton>Abort</guibutton> button.
</para>
<para>
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="browse_pictures">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Browse Cover Art...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
The <action>Browse Cover Art</action> dialog helps to find album cover
art. <guilabel>Artist/Album</guilabel> is filled from the tags if
possible. <guilabel>Source</guilabel> offers a variety of websites with album
cover art. The URL with artist and album as parameters can be found beneath
the name. URL-encoded values for artist and album can be inserted using
<userinput>%u{artist}</userinput> and <userinput>%u{album}</userinput>, other
values from the tags are possible too, as described
in <link linkend="configure-kid3">Configure Kid3</link>, <guilabel>User
Actions</guilabel>. More sources can be entered after the entry "Custom
Source" by replacing "Custom Source" with the source's name, pressing Enter,
then inserting the URL and finally pressing <guibutton>Save
Settings</guibutton>. The resulting browser command is displayed at the top of
the dialog and can be started by clicking <guibutton>Browse</guibutton>. The
browser, which can be configured in the settings, is started with the selected
source. A cover image can then be dragged from the browser into the &kid3;
window and will be set in the picture frame of the selected files.
</para>
<para>
Because not all browsers support drag'n'drop of images and the pictures on
websites often have a URL, in such cases &kid3; will receive the URL and not
the picture. If the URL points to a picture, it will be downloaded. However,
if the URL refers to some other web resource, it has to be translated to the
corresponding picture. Such mappings are defined in the table <guilabel>URL
extraction</guilabel>. The left column <guilabel>Match</guilabel> contains a
regular expression which is compared with the URL. If it matches, the captured
expressions in parentheses are inserted into the pattern of the
right <guilabel>Picture URL</guilabel> column (at the positions marked with \1
etc.). The replaced regular expression contains the URL of the picture. By
this means cover art can be imported from Amazon, Google Images, etc. using
drag'n'drop. It is also possible to define your own mappings.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="export">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Export...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
The <action>Export Dialog</action> is used to store data from the tags in a
file or the clipboard. The editor at the top shows a preview of the data to
export. If the export data contain tabulator characters, the export is
displayed in a table. The data will be generated from the tags
in the current directory according to the configured format.
</para>
<para>
The format settings are similar as in the Import dialog: The topmost field
contains the title (e.g. "CSV unquoted"), followed by the header, which will
be generated at the begin of the file. The track data follows; it is used for
every track. Finally, the trailer can be used to generate some finishing
text.
</para>
<para>
The format fields do not contain regular expressions as in the Import dialog,
but only output format expressions with special %-expressions, which will be
replaced by values from the tags. The whole thing works like the file name
format, and the same codes are used plus some additional codes. Not only the
codes listed below but all tag frame names can be used.
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>%s %{title} Title (Song)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%a %{artist} Artist</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%l %{album} Album</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%c %{comment} Comment</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%y %{year} Year</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track} Track (e.g. 01)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track.n} Track with field width n (e.g. 001 for %{track.3})</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%T %{tracknumber} Track (without leading zeros, e.g. 1)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%g %{genre} Genre</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%f %{file} File name</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%p %{filepath} Path</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%u %{url} URL</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%d %{duration} Duration in minutes:seconds</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%D %{seconds} Duration in seconds</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%n %{tracks} Number of tracks of the album</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%e %{extension} File extension</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%O %{tag1} The format of tag 1 (ID3v1.1 or empty if not
existing)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%o %{tag2} The format of tag 2 (ID3v2.3.0, ID3v2.4.0,
ID3v2.2.0, ID3v2.2.1, Vorbis, APE, MP4, ASF, or empty if not existing)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%b %{bitrate} Bit rate in kbit/s</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%v %{vbr} VBR or empty (only for ID3v2.3 with
id3lib)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%r %{samplerate} Sample rate in Hz</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%m %{mode} Channel mode (Stereo or Joint Stereo)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%h %{channels} Number of channels (1 or 2)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%k %{codec} Codec (e.g. MPEG 1 Layer 3, MP4, Ogg Vorbis, FLAC,
MPC, APE, ASF, AIFF, WAV)</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
A few formats are predefined. "CSV unquoted" separates the fields by
tabs. Data in this format can be imported again into &kid3; using the import
format with the same name. "CSV quoted" additionally encloses the fields by
double quotes, which eases the import into spreadsheet applications. However,
the fields shall not contain any double quotes when this format is used.
"Extended M3U" and "Extended PLS" generate playlists with extended attributes
and absolute path names. "HTML" can be used to generate an HTML page with
hyperlinks to the tracks. "Kover XML" creates a file which can be imported by
the cover printing program Kover. "Technical Details" provides information
about bit rate, sample rate, channels, etc. Finally, "Custom Format" is left empty for
definition of a custom format. You can define more formats of your own by
adding lines in the file <filename>kid3rc</filename> in the configuration
directory. The other formats can be adapted to your needs.
</para>
<para>
The source of the tags to generate the export data (<guilabel>Tag 1</guilabel>
or <guilabel>Tag 2</guilabel>) can be selected with a combo
box. Pushing <guibutton>To File</guibutton> or
<guibutton>To Clipboard</guibutton> stores the data in a file or on the
clipboard. <guibutton>OK</guibutton> and <guibutton>Cancel</guibutton> close
the dialog, whereas <guibutton>OK</guibutton> accepts the current dialog
settings.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="create-playlist">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Create Playlist</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
<action>Creates a playlist.</action> The format and contents of the playlist
can be set by various options.</para>
<para>
The name of the playlist can be the <guibutton>Same as directory
name</guibutton> or use a <guibutton>Format</guibutton> with values
from the tags, e.g. "%{artist} - %{album}" to have the artist and album
name in the playlist file name. The format codes are the same as for
<link linkend="export">Export</link>.
<guibutton>Create new empty playlist</guibutton> will make an empty playlist
with the given name.
The extension depends on the playlist format.
</para>
<para>
The location of the generated playlist is determined by the selection of
the <guilabel>Create in</guilabel> combo box.
<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>Current directory</term>
<listitem><para>The playlist is created in the current directory and contains
only files of the current directory. The current directory is the directory
where the current file is located. If multiple files are selected, the current
file is probably the last selected file.</para></listitem></varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term>Every directory</term>
<listitem><para>A playlist is created in every directory which contains
listed files, and each playlist contains the files of that directory.
</para></listitem></varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term>Top-level directory</term>
<listitem><para>Only one playlist is created in the top-level
directory (i.e. the directory of the file list) and it contains the listed
files of the top-level directory and all of its sub-directories.
</para></listitem></varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</para>
<para>
The <guilabel>Format</guilabel> of the playlist can
be <guilabel>M3U</guilabel>, <guilabel>PLS</guilabel> or
<guilabel>XSPF</guilabel>.
</para>
<para>
If <guibutton>Include only the selected files</guibutton> is checked, only the
selected files will be included in the playlist. If a directory is selected,
all of its files are selected. If this check box is not activated, all audio
files are included in the playlist.
</para>
<para>
<guibutton>Sort by file name</guibutton> selects the usual case where the
files are ordered by file name. With <guibutton>Sort by tag field</guibutton>,
it is possible to sort by a format string with values from tag fields. For
instance, "%{track.3}" can be used to sort by track number (the ".3" is used
to get three digits with leading zeros because strings are used for
sorting). It is also possible to use multiple fields, e.g. "%{genre}%{year}"
to sort using a string composed of genre and year.
</para>
<para>
The playlist entries will have relative or absolute file paths depending on
whether <guibutton>Use relative path for files in playlist</guibutton> or
<guibutton>Use full path for files in playlist</guibutton> is set.
</para>
<para>
When <guibutton>Write only list of files</guibutton> is set, the playlist
will only contain the paths to the files. To generate an extended playlist
with additional information, a format string can be set using
the <guibutton>Write info using</guibutton> control.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>File</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Quits the application.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="edit-menu">
<title>The Edit Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>A</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select All</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Selects all files.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Shift</keycap><keycap>A</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Deselect</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Deselects all files.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Select All in Directory</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Selects all files of the current directory.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>Up</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Previous File</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Selects the previous file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Alt</keycap><keycap>Down</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Next File</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Selects the next file.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>F</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Find...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Find strings in the file names and the tags. The
<guilabel>Find</guilabel> dialog is a subset of the
<guilabel>Replace</guilabel> dialog, which is described below.
 </para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="find-replace">
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>R</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Edit</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Replace...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This function opens a dialog to find and replace strings in the
file names and the tags. The set of frames where the search is performed can
be restricted by deactivating the <guilabel>Select all</guilabel> checkbox and
selecting the frames which shall be searched. There are also search options
available to search backwards, case sensitively, and to use regular
expressions.</para>
<para>Depending on the number of files, the search might take some
time, therefore it can be aborted by closing the dialog.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="tools-menu">
<title>The Tools Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry id="apply-filename-format">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Apply Filename Format</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>When <guilabel>Automatically apply format</guilabel> is switched off
for the filename format in the configuration dialog, this menu item can be used to <action>apply
the configured format to the names of the selected files</action>. This can also be used
to check whether the file names conform with the configured format
by applying the format to all saved files and then checking if any files were
changed (and therefore marked with a disk symbol in the file listbox).
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="apply-tag-format">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Apply Tag Format</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>When <guilabel>Automatically apply format</guilabel> is switched off
for the tag format in the configuration dialog, this menu item can be used to <action>apply
the configured format to the tags of the selected files</action>. This can also be used
to check whether the tags conform with the configured format
by applying the format to all saved files and then checking if any files were
changed (and therefore marked with a disk symbol in the file listbox).
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="apply-text-encoding">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Apply Text Encoding</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Sets the <guilabel>Text encoding</guilabel> selected
in <guilabel>Settings/Configure Kid3.../Tags/Tag 2</guilabel> for all
selected files. If UTF8 is selected, UTF16 will be used for ID3v2.3.0 tags
because UTF8 is not supported for this format.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="rename-directory">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Rename Directory...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This dialog offers the possibility to automatically rename the
currently open directory according to the tags in the files. Several formats
are preconfigured to include information about artist, album and year in the
directory name. It is also possible to set a custom format, the following
special codes are used to insert tag values into the directory name:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>%s %{title} Title (Song)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%a %{artist} Artist</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%l %{album} Album</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%c %{comment} Comment</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%y %{year} Year</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track} Track (e.g. 01)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track.n} Track with field width n (e.g. 001 for %{track.3})</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%T %{tracknumber} Track (without leading zeros, e.g. 1)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%g %{genre} Genre</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
If a directory separator "/" is found in the format, multiple directories are
created. If you want to create a new directory instead of renaming the current
directory, select <guilabel>Create Directory</guilabel> instead of
<guilabel>Rename Directory</guilabel>. The source of the tag information can
be chosen between <guilabel>From Tag 1 and Tag 2</guilabel>,
<guilabel>From Tag 1</guilabel> and <guilabel>From Tag 2</guilabel>.
A preview for the rename operation performed on the first
file can be seen in the <guilabel>From</guilabel> and <guilabel>To</guilabel>
sections of the dialog.
</para>
<para>
Multiple directories can be renamed by selecting them.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="number-tracks">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Number Tracks...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
If the track numbers in the tags are not set or have the wrong values, this
function can <action>number the tracks automatically in ascending
order</action>. The start number can be set in the dialog. If only part of the
tracks have to be numbered, they must be selected.
</para><para>
When <guilabel>Total number of tracks</guilabel> is checked, the number
of tracks will also be set in the tags.
</para><para>
It is possible to number the tracks over multiple directories. The folders
have to be expanded and selected.
</para><para>
If <guilabel>Reset counter for each directory</guilabel> is checked, track
numbering is restarted with the given number for each directory when multiple
folders are selected.
</para><para>
The number tracks dialog can also be used to format existing track numbers
without changing the values when the check box left to <guilabel>Start
number</guilabel> is deactivated. The total number of tracks will be added if
the corresponding check box is active, which can be used to set the total for
all selected tracks. If only formatting of the existing numbers is desired,
this check box has to be deactivated too.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="filter">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Filter...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para>
The filter can be used to display only those files which match certain
criteria. This is helpful if you want to organize a large collection and only
edit those files which are not in the desired scheme. The expression defining
which files to display uses the same format codes which are used in the file
name format, import and export.
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>%s %{title} Title (Song)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%a %{artist} Artist</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%l %{album} Album</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%c %{comment} Comment</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%y %{year} Year</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track} Track (e.g. 01)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track.n} Track with field width n (e.g. 001 for %{track.3})</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%T %{tracknumber} Track (without leading zeros, e.g. 1)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%g %{genre} Genre</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%f %{file} File name</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%p %{filepath} Absolute path to file</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%e %{extension} File extension</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%O %{tag1} The format of tag 1 (ID3v1.1 or empty if not
existing)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%o %{tag2} The format of tag 2 (ID3v2.3.0, ID3v2.4.0,
ID3v2.2.0, ID3v2.2.1, Vorbis, APE, MP4, ASF, or empty if not existing)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%b %{bitrate} Bit rate in kbit/s</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%v %{vbr} VBR or empty (only for ID3v2.3 with
id3lib)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%r %{samplerate} Sample rate in Hz</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%m %{mode} Channel mode (Stereo or Joint Stereo)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%h %{channels} Number of channels (1 or 2)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%k %{codec} Codec (e.g. MPEG 1 Layer 3, MP4, Ogg Vorbis, FLAC,
MPC, APE, ASF, AIFF, WAV)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%w %{marked} Marked, is 1 if the file is marked (e.g. because
of truncation or standard violation), empty otherwise</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%1a %1{artist}, ... Use the prefix 1 to get values of tag 1</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%2a %2{artist}, ... Use the prefix 2 to get values of tag 2</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
These codes are replaced with the values for
the file, and the resulting strings can be compared with the following
operations:
</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>s1 equals s2: true if s1 and s2 are equal.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>s1 contains s2: true if s1 contains s2, i.e. s2 is a
substring of s1.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>s matches re: true if s matches the regular expression re.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<para>
True expressions are replaced by 1, false by 0. True values are represented by
1, true, on and yes, false values by 0, false, off and no. Boolean operations
are not, and, or (in this order of precedence) and can be grouped by parentheses.
</para>
<para>
Some filter rules are predefined and can serve as examples for your own
expressions:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>All</term><listitem>
<para>
When the file list is filtered - this is shown by "[filtered]" in the
window title - and all files shall be displayed again,
the filtering can be reverted using this filter. It uses an empty expression,
but a true value would have the same effect.
</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Filename Tag Mismatch</term><listitem>
<para><userinput>
not (%{filepath} contains "%{artist} - %{album}/%{track} %{title}")
</userinput></para>
<para>
Tests if the file path conforms with the file name format. This
rule is automatically adapted if the file name format changes.
</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>No Tag 1</term><listitem>
<para><userinput>
%{tag1} equals ""
</userinput></para>
<para>Displays only files which do not have a tag 1.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>No Tag 2</term><listitem>
<para><userinput>
%{tag2} equals ""
</userinput></para>
<para>Displays only files which do not have a tag 2.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>ID3v2.3.0 Tag</term><listitem>
<para><userinput>
%{tag2} equals "ID3v2.3.0"
</userinput></para>
<para>Displays only files which have an ID3v2.3.0 tag.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>ID3v2.4.0 Tag</term><listitem>
<para><userinput>
%{tag2} equals "ID3v2.4.0"
</userinput></para>
<para>Displays only files which have an ID3v2.4.0 tag.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Tag 1 != Tag 2</term><listitem>
<para><userinput>
not (%1{title} equals %2{title} and %1{album} equals %2{album} and %1{artist}
equals %2{artist} and %1{comment} equals %2{comment} and %1{year} equals
%2{year} and %1{track} equals %2{track} and %1{genre} equals %2{genre})
</userinput></para>
<para>Displays files with differences between tag 1 and tag2.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Tag 1 == Tag 2</term><listitem>
<para><userinput>
%1{title} equals %2{title} and %1{album} equals %2{album} and %1{artist}
equals %2{artist} and %1{comment} equals %2{comment} and %1{year} equals
%2{year} and %1{track} equals %2{track} and %1{genre} equals %2{genre}
</userinput></para>
<para>Displays files with identical tag 1 and tag 2.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Incomplete</term><listitem>
<para><userinput>
%{title} equals "" or %{artist} equals "" or %{album} equals "" or %{year} equals "" or %{tracknumber} equals "" or %{genre} equals ""
</userinput></para>
<para>Displays files with empty values in the standard tags (title, artist,
 album, date, track number, genre).</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>No Picture</term><listitem>
<para><userinput>
%{picture} equals ""
</userinput></para>
<para>Displays only files which do not have a picture.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Marked</term><listitem>
<para><userinput>
not (%{marked} equals "")
</userinput></para>
<para>Displays only files which are marked because they violate the ID3
standard, are truncated or the picture is too large.</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

<varlistentry><term>Custom Filter</term><listitem>
<para>
To add your own filter, select this entry. For instance, if you want
to have a filter for artists starting with "The", replace "Custom Filter"
with the name "The Bands" and press Enter. Then insert the following
expression into the line edit:
</para>
<para><userinput>
%{artist} matches "The.*"
</userinput></para>
<para>
Then click <guibutton>Save
Settings</guibutton>. Click <guibutton>Apply</guibutton> to filter the
files. All files processed are displayed in the text view, with a "+" for
those who match the filter and a "-"  for the others. When finished, only the
files with an artist starting with "The" are displayed, and the window title
is marked with "[filtered]".
</para>
</listitem></varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="convert-to-id3v24">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Convert ID3v2.3 to ID3v2.4</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
If there are any ID3v2.3 tags in the selected files, they will
be <action>converted to ID3v2.4</action> tags. Frames which are not supported
by TagLib will be discarded. Only files without unsaved changes will be converted.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="convert-to-id3v23">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Convert ID3v2.4 to ID3v2.3</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
If there are any ID3v2.4 tags in the selected files, they will
be <action>converted to ID3v2.3</action> tags. Only files without
unsaved changes will be converted.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="play">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Tools</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Play</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
This opens a simple toolbar to play audio files. It contains buttons for the
basic operations (<guibutton>Play/Pause</guibutton>,
<guibutton>Stop playback</guibutton>, <guibutton>Previous Track</guibutton>,
<guibutton>Next Track</guibutton>, <guibutton>Close</guibutton>),
sliders for position and volume and a display of the current position.
If multiple files are selected, the selected tracks are played, else all
files will be played.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="settings-menu">
<title>The Settings Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggles displaying of the toolbar.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Statusbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggles displaying of the statusbar</action>, which displays
longer actions such as opening or saving a directory.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Picture</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggles displaying of the album cover art preview
picture.</action>
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Auto Hide Tags</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>
Empty tags are automatically hidden if this option is active.
The <guilabel>File</guilabel>, <guilabel>Tag 1</guilabel>
and <guilabel>Tag 2</guilabel> sections can be manually collapsed and expanded
by clicking on the corresponding
<guibutton>-</guibutton>/<guibutton>+</guibutton> buttons.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="configure-kid3">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Kid3...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens the <action>configuration dialog</action>, which
consists of pages for tags, files, user actions, and network settings.
</para>
<para>
Tag specific options can be found on the <guilabel>Tags</guilabel> page,
which is itself separated into four tabs
for <guilabel>Tag 1</guilabel>, <guilabel>Tag 2</guilabel>, <guilabel>Tag
3</guilabel>, and <guilabel>All Tags</guilabel>.
</para>
<para>
If <guilabel>Mark truncated fields</guilabel> is checked, truncated ID3v1.1
fields will be marked red. The text fields of ID3v1.1 tags can only have 30
characters, the comment only 28 characters. Also the genre and track numbers
are restricted, so that fields can be truncated when imported or transferred
from ID3v2. Truncated fields and the file will be marked red, and the mark
will be removed after the field has been edited.
</para>
<para>
With <guilabel>Text encoding</guilabel> for <guilabel>ID3v1</guilabel> it is
possible to set the character set used in ID3v1 tags. This encoding is
supposed to be ISO-8859-1, so it is recommended to keep this default
value. However, there are tags around with different encoding, so it can be
set here and the ID3v1 tags can then be copied to ID3v2 which supports Unicode.
</para>
<para>
The check box <guilabel>Use track/total number of tracks
format</guilabel> controls whether the track number field of ID3v2 tags
contains simply the track number or additionally the total number of tracks in
the directory.
</para>
<para>
When <guilabel>Genre as text instead of numeric string</guilabel> is checked,
all ID3v2 genres will be stored as a text string even if there is a
corresponding code for ID3v1 genres. If this option is not set, genres for which
an ID3v1 code exists are stored as the number of the genre code (in
parentheses for ID3v2.3). Thus the genre Metal is stored as "Metal" or "(9)"
depending on this option. Genres which are not in the list of ID3v1 genres are
always stored as a text string. The purpose of this option is improved
compatibility with devices which do not correctly interpret genre codes.
</para>
<para>
When <guilabel>WAV files with lowercase id3 chunk</guilabel> is checked, the
RIFF chunk used to store ID3v2 tags in WAV files will be named "id3 " instead
of "ID3 ". By default, &kid3; and other applications using TagLib accept both
the lowercase and the uppercase variant when reading WAV files, but they use
"ID3 " when writing ID3v2 tags to WAV files. As there exist other applications
which only accept "id3 " (e.g. JRiver Media Center and foobar2000), this
option can be used to create tags which can be read by such applications.
</para>
<para>
When <guilabel>Mark standard violations</guilabel> is checked, ID3v2 fields
which violate the standard will be marked red. Details about the violation are
shown in a tooltip:
</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>Must be unique</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>New line is forbidden</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Carriage return is forbidden</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Owner must be non-empty</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Must be numeric</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Must be numeric or number/total</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Format is DDMM</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Format is HHMM</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Format is YYYY</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Must begin with a year and a space character</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Must be ISO 8601 date/time</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Must be musical key, 3 characters, A-G, b, #, m, o</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Must have ISO 639-2 language code, 3 lowercase characters</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Must be ISRC code, 12 characters</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Must be list of strings separated by '|'</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>Has excess white space</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<para>
The ID3 standard documents are available online:
</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><ulink url="http://id3.org/id3v2.3.0">ID3 tag version 2.3.0</ulink></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><ulink url="http://id3.org/id3v2.4.0-structure">ID3 tag version 2.4.0 - Main Structure</ulink></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><ulink url="http://id3.org/id3v2.4.0-frames">ID3 tag version 2.4.0 - Native Frames</ulink></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
<para>
<guilabel>Text encoding</guilabel> defines the default encoding used for ID3v2
frames and can be set
to <guilabel>ISO-8859-1</guilabel>, <guilabel>UTF16</guilabel>,
or <guilabel>UTF8</guilabel>. <guilabel>UTF8</guilabel> is not valid for
ID3v2.3.0 frames; if it is set, <guilabel>UTF16</guilabel> will be used
instead. For ID3v2.4.0 frames, all three encodings are possible.
</para>
<para>
<guilabel>Version used for new tags</guilabel> determines whether new ID3v2
tags are created as version 2.3.0 or 2.4.0.
</para>
<para>
<guilabel>Track number digits</guilabel> is the number of digits in Track
Number fields. Leading zeros are used to pad. For instance, with a value of 2
the track number 5 is set as "05".
</para>
<para>
The combo box <guilabel>Comment field name</guilabel> is only
relevant for Ogg/Vorbis and FLAC files and sets the name of the field used for
comments. Different applications seem to use different names, "COMMENT" for
instance is used by xmms, whereas amaroK uses "DESCRIPTION".
</para>
<para>
The format of pictures in Ogg/Vorbis files is determined by
<guilabel>Picture field name</guilabel>, which can be
<guilabel>METADATA_BLOCK_PICTURE</guilabel> or <guilabel>COVERART</guilabel>.
The first is the official standard and uses the same format as pictures in
FLAC tags. COVERART is an earlier unofficial way to include pictures in
Vorbis comments. It can be used for compatibility with legacy players.
</para>
<para>
If the <guilabel>Mark if larger than</guilabel> check box is activated,
files containing embedded album cover art exceeding the given size in bytes
are marked red. This can be used to find files containing oversized pictures
which are not accepted by some applications and players. The default value is
131072 bytes (128 KB).
</para>
<para>
<guilabel>Custom Genres</guilabel> can be used to define genres which are not
available in the standard genre list, e.g. "Gothic Metal". Such custom genres
will appear in the <guilabel>Genre</guilabel> combo box of
<guilabel>Tag 2</guilabel>. For ID3v1.1 tags, only the predefined genres can
be used.
</para>
<para>
The list of custom genres can also be used to reduce the number of genres
available in the <guilabel>Genre</guilabel> combo box to those typically used.
If your collection mostly contains music in the genres Metal, Gothic Metal,
Ancient and Hard Rock, you can enter those genres and mark
<guilabel>Show only custom genres</guilabel>. The <guilabel>Tag 2</guilabel>
<guilabel>Genre</guilabel> combo box will then only contain those four genres
and you will not have to search through the complete genres list for them.
In this example, only Metal and Hard Rock will be listed in the tag 1 genres
list, because those two custom genres entries are standard genres.
If <guilabel>Show only custom genres</guilabel> is not active, the custom
genres can be found at the end of the genres list.
</para>
<para>
<guilabel>Quick Access Frames</guilabel> defines which frame types are always
shown in the <link linkend="tag2">Tag 2</link> section. Such frames can
then be added without first using the <guibutton>Add</guibutton> button.
The order of these quick access frames can be changed by dragging and dropping
items.
</para>
<para>
The combo box <guilabel>Track number field name</guilabel> is only
relevant for RIFF INFO and sets the name of the field used for
track numbers. Track numbers are not specified in the original RIFF standard,
there are applications which use "ITRK", others use "IPRT".
</para>
<para>
<guilabel>Tag Format</guilabel> contains options for the format of the tags.
When <guilabel>Automatically apply format</guilabel> is checked, the format
configuration is automatically used while editing text in the line edits.
The <guilabel>Case conversion</guilabel> can be set to <guilabel>No
changes</guilabel>, <guilabel>All lowercase</guilabel>, <guilabel>All
uppercase</guilabel>, <guilabel>First letter uppercase</guilabel> or
<guilabel>All first letters uppercase</guilabel>. To use locale-aware
conversion between lowercase and uppercase characters, a locale can be
selected in the combobox below.
The string replacement list can be set to arbitrary string mappings. To add a
new mapping, select the <guilabel>From</guilabel> cell of a row and insert the
text to replace, then go to the <guilabel>To</guilabel> column and enter the
replacement text. To remove a mapping set the <guilabel>From</guilabel> cell
to an empty value (e.g. by first typing space and then backspace). Inserting
and deleting rows is also possible using a context menu which appears when the
right mouse button is clicked.  Replacement is only active, if the
<guilabel>String replacement</guilabel> checkbox is checked.
</para>

<para>
The table in <guilabel>Rating</guilabel> contains the mapping of star ratings
to the effective values stored in the tag. The frames with rating information
are listed in the Rating row of the
<!--change manpageframe list.--><link linkend="table-frame-list">frame list</link>.
For these frames, the rating can be set by giving a number of
stars out of five stars. Different tag formats and different applications use
different values to map the star rating to the value stored in the tag. In
order to display the correct number of stars, &kid3; will look up a map in
this table. The key to look up the mapping is the frame name, for example
"RATING" as used for Vorbis comments or "IRTD" for RIFF INFO. For ID3v2 tags,
a combined key is used consisting of the frame ID "POPM" of the Popularimeter
frame and its "Email" field, separated by a dot. Therefore, different keys for
ID3v2 exist, e.g. "POPM.Windows Media Player 9 Series" for the mapping used by
Windows Media Player and Explorer, and simply "POPM" for POPM frames with an
empty "Email" field. As multiple entries for "POPM" can exist, their order is
important. When &kid3; adds a new Popularimeter frame, it will use the first
"POPM" entry to determine the value to be written into the "Email" field. This
value will then specify the mapping to be used for star ratings. The first
entry is also used if no key was found, it is therefore the default entry.
</para>
<para>
Besides the <guilabel>Name</guilabel> column containing the keys, the table
has columns <guilabel>1</guilabel> to <guilabel>5</guilabel> for the values to
be stored when the corresponding number of stars is given. The other way
round, the values determine the number of stars which are displayed for the
value stored in the frame. For instance, the row in the table below contains
the values 1, 64, 128, 196, 255. The thresholds for the number of stars to be
displayed lay between these values and are compatible with what the Windows
Explorer uses.
</para>

<table id="table-rating">
  <title>Entry in Rating Table</title>
  <tgroup cols="6">
    <thead>
      <row><entry>Name</entry><entry>1</entry> <entry>2</entry>  <entry>3</entry>  <entry>4</entry>  <entry>5</entry></row>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <row><entry>POPM</entry><entry>1</entry><entry>64</entry><entry>128</entry><entry>196</entry><entry>255</entry></row>
      <row><entry>Range</entry><entry>1-31</entry><entry>32-95</entry><entry>96-159</entry><entry>160-223</entry><entry>224-255</entry></row>
    </tbody>
  </tgroup>
</table>

<para>
On the page <guilabel>Files</guilabel> the check box <guilabel>Load
last-opened files</guilabel> can be marked so that &kid3; will open and
select the last selected file when it is started the next time.
<guilabel>Preserve file timestamp</guilabel> can be checked to preserve
the file modification time stamp.
<guilabel>Filename for cover</guilabel> sets the name which is suggested
when an embedded image is exported to a file.
With <guilabel>Text encoding (Export, Playlist)</guilabel> the encoding used
when writing files can be set. The default <guilabel>System</guilabel> can be
changed for example if playlists have to be used on a different device.
</para>
<para>
If <guilabel>Mark changes</guilabel> is active, changed fields are marked with
a light gray label background.
</para>
<para>
The section <guilabel>File List</guilabel> determines which files are
displayed in the file list. A <guilabel>Filter</guilabel> can be used to
restrict the items in this list to files with supported extensions. To
explicitly specify which directories to display in the file list or exclude
certain directories, the options <guilabel>Include folders</guilabel> and
<guilabel>Exclude folders</guilabel> can be used. They can contain wildcard
expressions, for instance <filename>*/Music/*</filename> to include only the
<filename>Music</filename> folder, or <filename>*/iTunes/*</filename> to
exclude the iTunes folder from the file list. If multiple such expressions
have to be used, they can be separated by spaces or semicolons.
</para>
<para>
<guilabel>Filename Format</guilabel> contains options for the format of the
filenames. The same options as in <guilabel>Tag Format</guilabel> are available.
</para>
<para>
The <guilabel>User Actions</guilabel> page contains a table with the commands which are available in the context menu of the file list. For critical
operations such as deleting files, it is advisable to mark
<guilabel>Confirm</guilabel> to pop up a confirmation dialog before executing
the command.
<guilabel>Output</guilabel> can be marked to see the output written by console
commands (standard output and standard error). <guilabel>Name</guilabel> is
the name displayed in the context menu. <guilabel>Command</guilabel> is the
command line to be executed. Arguments can be passed using the following
codes:
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>%F %{files} File paths (a list if multiple files selected)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%f %{file} File path to single file</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%uF %{urls} URLs (a list if multiple files selected)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%uf %{url} URL to single file</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%d %{directory} Directory</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%s %{title} Title (Song)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%a %{artist} Artist</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%l %{album} Album</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%c %{comment} Comment</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%y %{year} Year</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track} Track (e.g. 01)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%t %{track.n} Track with field width n (e.g. 001 for %{track.3})</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%T %{tracknumber} Track (without leading zeros, e.g. 1)</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%g %{genre} Genre</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%b %{browser} Command to start the web browser</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>%q %{qmlpath} Base directory of provided QML files</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>
The special code <command>@separator</command> can be set as a command to
insert a separator into the user actions context menu. Menu items can be put
into a submenu by enclosing them with <command>@beginmenu</command> and
<command>@endmenu</command> commands. The name of the submenu is determined by
the <guilabel>Name</guilabel> column of the <command>@beginmenu</command>
command.
</para>

<para id="configure-user-actions-qml">
To execute QML scripts, <command>@qml</command> is used as a command name. The
path to the QML script is passed as a parameter. The provided scripts can be
found in the folder <filename>%{qmlpath}/script/</filename> (on
Linux typically <filename>/usr/share/kid3/qml/script/</filename>, on
Windows <filename>qml/script/</filename> inside the installation directory,
and on OS X in the app folder
<filename>kid3.app/Contents/Resources/qml/script/</filename>). Custom scripts
can be stored in any directory. If the QML code uses GUI components,
<command>@qmlview</command> shall be used instead of
<command>@qml</command>. Additional parameters are passed to the QML script
where they will be available via the <function>getArguments()</function>
function. An overview of some functions and properties which are available in
QML can be found in the appendix <link linkend="qml-interface">QML Interface</link>.
</para>

<para>
The command which will be inserted with %{browser} can be defined in the
<guilabel>Web browser</guilabel> line edit above. Commands starting with %{browser}
can be used to fetch information about the audio files from the web,
for instance
<screen width="40">
<userinput>%{browser} http://lyricwiki.org/%u{artist}:%u{title}</userinput>
</screen>
will query the lyrics for the current song in
<ulink url="http://www.lyricwiki.org">LyricWiki</ulink>. The "u" in %u{artist} and %u{title}
is used to URL-encode the artist %{artist} and song %{title} information. It is easy to
define your own queries in the same way, e.g. an image search with
<ulink url="http://www.google.com">Google</ulink>:
<screen width="40">
<userinput>%{browser} http://images.google.com/images?q=%u{artist}%20%u{album}</userinput>
</screen>
</para>
<para>
To add album cover art to tag 2, you can search for images with Google or
Amazon using the commands described above. The picture can be added to the tag
with drag and drop. You can also add an image with <guibutton>Add</guibutton>, then select
the Picture frame and import an image file or paste from the
clipboard. Picture frames are supported for ID3v2, MP4, FLAC, Ogg and ASF tags.
</para>
<para>
To add and delete entries in the table, a context menu can be
used.
</para>
<para>
The <guilabel>Network</guilabel> page contains only a field to insert the proxy
address and optionally the port, separated by a colon. The proxy will be used
when importing from an Internet server when the checkbox is checked.
</para>
<para>
In the <guilabel>Plugins</guilabel> page, available plugins can be enabled or
disabled. The plugins are separated into two sections. The <guilabel>Metadata
Plugins &amp; Priority</guilabel> list contains plugins which support audio
file formats. The order of the plugins is important because they are tried from
top to bottom. Some formats are supported by multiple plugins, so files will
be opened with the first plugin supporting them. The
<guilabel>TaglibMetadata</guilabel> supports most formats, if it is at the top
of the list, it will open most of the files. If you want to use a different
plugin for a file format, make sure that it is listed before the
<guilabel>TaglibMetadata</guilabel> plugin. Details about the metadata plugin
and why you may want to use them instead of TagLib are listed below.

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Id3libMetadata</guilabel>:
Uses <ulink url="http://id3lib.sourceforge.net">id3lib</ulink> for ID3v1.1
and ID3v2.3 tags in MP3, MP2, AAC files. Supports a few more frame types
than TagLib.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>OggFlacMetadata</guilabel>:
Uses <ulink url="http://xiph.org/ogg/">libogg</ulink>,
<ulink url="http://xiph.org/vorbis/">libvorbis, libvorbisfile</ulink> for Ogg
files, and additionally <ulink url="http://flac.sourceforge.net">libFLAC++
and libFLAC</ulink> for FLAC files. These are the official
libraries for these formats.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>TaglibMetadata</guilabel>:
Uses <ulink url="http://taglib.github.io/">TagLib</ulink> which supports a
lot of audio file formats. It can be used for all audio files supported by
&kid3;.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Mp4v2Metadata</guilabel>:
<ulink url="http://code.google.com/p/mp4v2">mp4v2</ulink> was originally used
by &kid3; to support M4A files. Can be used in case of problems with the M4A
support of TagLib.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

The <guilabel>Available Plugins</guilabel> section lists the remaining
plugins. Their order is not important, but they can be enabled or disabled
using the check boxes.

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>AmazonImport</guilabel>:
Used for the <guimenuitem>Import from Amazon...</guimenuitem> function.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>DiscogsImport</guilabel>:
Used for the <guimenuitem>Import from Discogs...</guimenuitem> function.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>FreedbImport</guilabel>:
Used for the <guimenuitem>Import from gnudb.org...</guimenuitem>
and <guimenuitem>Import from TrackType.org...</guimenuitem> functions.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>MusicBrainzImport</guilabel>:
Used for the <guimenuitem>Import from MusicBrainz Release...</guimenuitem>
function.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>AcoustidImport</guilabel>:
Used for the <guimenuitem>Import from MusicBrainz Fingerprint...</guimenuitem>
function, which depends on
the <ulink url="http://acoustid.org/chromaprint">Chromaprint</ulink>
and <ulink url="http://libav.org/">libav</ulink> libraries.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
<para>
Plugins which are disabled will not be loaded. This can be used to optimize
resource usage and startup time. The settings on this page take only effect
after a restart of &kid3;.
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry id="configure-shortcuts">
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Opens a dialog to assign keyboard shortcuts for most of the
program functions. There are even functions without corresponding menu or
button available, e.g. next file, previous file, select all.
</para>
<para>
</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="help-menu">
<title>The Help Menu</title>
<para>
<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Kid3 Handbook</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Opens this handbook.</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Help</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>About Kid3</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Displays a short information about Kid3;.
</action></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>


</variablelist>
</para>

</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="kid3-cli">
<title>kid3-cli</title>
<sect1 id="kid3-cli-commands">
<title>Commands</title>
<para>
<command>kid3-cli</command> offers a command-line-interface for &kid3;. If a
directory path is used, the directory is opened. If one or more file paths are
given, the common directory is opened and the files are selected. Subsequent
commands will then work on these files. Commands are specified using
<option>-c</option> options. If multiple commands are passed, they are
executed in the given order. If files are modified by the commands, they will
be saved at the end. If no command options are passed,
<command>kid3-cli</command> starts in interactive mode. Commands can be
entered and will operate on the current selection. The following sections
list all available commands.
</para>

<sect2 id="cli-help">
<title>Help</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>help</command>
<arg><replaceable>COMMAND-NAME</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Displays help about the parameters of
<replaceable>COMMAND-NAME</replaceable> or about all commands if no command
name is given.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-timeout">
<title>Timeout</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>timeout</command>
<group>
<arg choice="plain">default</arg>
<arg choice="plain">off</arg>
<arg choice="plain"><replaceable>TIME</replaceable></arg>
</group>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Overwrite the default command timeout. The CLI commands abort after a
command specific timeout is expired. This timeout is 10 seconds for
<command>ls</command> and <command>albumart</command>, 60 seconds for
<command>autoimport</command> and <command>filter</command>, and 3 seconds for
all other commands. If a huge number of files has to be processed, this
timeouts may be too restrictive, thus the timeout for all commands can be set
to <replaceable>TIME</replaceable> ms, switched off altogether or be left at
the default values.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-exit">
<title>Quit application</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>exit</command>
<arg>force</arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Exit application. If there are modified unsaved files, the <parameter
class="command">force</parameter> parameter is required.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-cd">
<title>Change directory</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>cd</command>
<arg><replaceable>DIRECTORY</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>If no <replaceable>DIRECTORY</replaceable> is given, change to the home
directory. If a directory is given, change into the directory. If one or more
file paths are given, change to their common directory and select the files.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-pwd">
<title>Print the current working directory</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>pwd</command>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Print the filename of the current working directory.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-ls">
<title>Directory list</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>ls</command>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>List the contents of the current directory. This corresponds to the file
list in the &kid3; GUI. Four characters before the file names show the state
of the file.
</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><computeroutput>&gt;</computeroutput> File is selected.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><computeroutput>*</computeroutput> File is modified.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><computeroutput>1</computeroutput> File has a tag 1,
otherwise '<computeroutput>-</computeroutput>' is displayed.</para></listitem>
<listitem><para><computeroutput>2</computeroutput> File has a tag 2,
otherwise '<computeroutput>-</computeroutput>' is displayed.</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<screen width="65"><prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>ls</userinput><computeroutput>
  1- 01 Intro.mp3
> 12 02 We Only Got This One.mp3
 *1- 03 Outro.mp3</computeroutput></screen>

<para>In this example, all files have a tag 1, the second file also has a tag
2 and it is selected. The third file is modified.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-save">
<title>Save the changed files</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>save</command>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-select">
<title>Select file</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>select</command>
<group>
<arg choice="plain">all</arg>
<arg choice="plain">none</arg>
<arg choice="plain">first</arg>
<arg choice="plain">previous</arg>
<arg choice="plain">next</arg>
<arg choice="plain" rep="repeat"><replaceable>FILE</replaceable></arg>
</group>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>To select all files, enter <userinput>select all</userinput>, to
deselect all files, enter <userinput>select none</userinput>. To traverse the
files in the current directory start with <userinput>select first</userinput>,
then go forward using <userinput>select next</userinput> or backward using
<userinput>select previous</userinput>. Specific files can be added to the
current selection by giving their file names. Wildcards are possible, so
<userinput>select *.mp3</userinput> will select all MP3 files in the current
directory.
</para>

<screen width="65"><prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>select first</userinput>
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>ls</userinput><computeroutput>
> 1- 01 Intro.mp3
  12 02 We Only Got This One.mp3
 *1- 03 Outro.mp3</computeroutput>
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>select next</userinput>
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>ls</userinput><computeroutput>
  1- 01 Intro.mp3
> 12 02 We Only Got This One.mp3
 *1- 03 Outro.mp3</computeroutput>
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>select *.mp3</userinput>
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>ls</userinput><computeroutput>
> 1- 01 Intro.mp3
> 12 02 We Only Got This One.mp3
>*1- 03 Outro.mp3</computeroutput></screen>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-tag">
<title>Select tag</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>tag</command>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Many commands have an optional <replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable>
parameter, which specifies whether the command operates on tag 1, 2, or 3. If
this parameter is omitted, the default tag numbers are used, which can be set
by this command. At startup, is is set to <literal>12</literal> which means
that information is read from tag 2 if available, else from tag 1;
modifications are done on tag 2. The
<option><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></option> can be set to
<userinput>1</userinput>, <userinput>2</userinput>, or
<userinput>3</userinput> to operate only on the
corresponding tag. If the parameter is omitted, the current setting is
displayed.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-get">
<title>Get tag frame</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>get</command>
<group>
<arg choice="plain">all</arg>
<arg choice="plain"><replaceable>FRAME-NAME</replaceable></arg>
</group>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>This command can be used to read the value of a specific tag frame or
get information about all tag frames (if the argument is omitted or
<option>all</option> is used). Modified frames are marked with a
'<computeroutput>*</computeroutput>'.
</para>

<screen width="65"><prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>get</userinput><computeroutput>
File: MPEG 1 Layer 3 192 kbps 44100 Hz Joint Stereo
  Name: 01 Intro.mp3
Tag 1: ID3v1.1
  Title         Intro
  Artist        One Hit Wonder
  Album         Let's Tag
  Date          2013
  Track Number  1
  Genre         Pop</computeroutput>
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>get title</userinput><computeroutput>
Intro</computeroutput></screen>
<para>To save the contents of a picture frame to a file, use
<screen width="65"><userinput>get picture:"/path/to/folder.jpg"</userinput></screen>
</para>
<para>To save synchronized lyrics to an LRC file, use
<screen width="65"><userinput>get SYLT:"/path/to/lyrics.lrc"</userinput></screen>
</para>
<para>It is possible to get only a specific field from a frame, for example
<userinput>get POPM.Email</userinput> for the Email field of a Popularimeter
frame. If a file has multiple frames of the same kind, the different frames
can be indexed with brackets, for example the first performer from a Vorbis
comment can be retrieved using <userinput>get performer[0]</userinput>,
the second using <userinput>get performer[1]</userinput>.
</para>
<para>
The pseudo field name "selected" can be used to check if a frame is selected,
for example <userinput>get artist.selected</userinput> will return
<computeroutput>1</computeroutput> if the artist frame is selected, else
<computeroutput>0</computeroutput>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-set">
<title>Set tag frame</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>set</command>
<arg choice="req"><replaceable>FRAME-NAME</replaceable></arg>
<arg choice="req"><replaceable>FRAME-VALUE</replaceable></arg>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>This command sets the value of a specific tag frame.
If <replaceable>FRAME-VALUE</replaceable> is empty, the frame is deleted.
</para>
<screen width="65"><prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>set remixer "O.H. Wonder"</userinput></screen>
<para>To set the contents of a picture frame from a file, use
<screen width="65"><userinput>set picture:"/path/to/folder.jpg" "Picture Description"</userinput></screen>
</para>
<para>To set synchronized lyrics from an LRC file, use
<screen width="65"><userinput>set SYLT:"/path/to/lyrics.lrc" "Lyrics Description"</userinput></screen>
</para>
<para>
To set a specific field of a frame, the field name can be given after a dot,
e.g. to set the Counter field of a Popularimeter frame, use
<screen width="65"><userinput>set POPM.Counter 5</userinput></screen>
</para>
<para>
To set multiple frames of the same kind, an index can be given in brackets,
e.g. to set multiple performers in a Vorbis comment, use
<screen width="65">
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>set performer[0] 'Liza don Getti (soprano)'</userinput>
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>set performer[1] 'Joe Barr (piano)'</userinput>
</screen>
</para>
<para>
To select certain frames before a copy, paste or remove action, the pseudo
field name "selected" can be used. Normally, all frames are selected, to
deselect all, use <userinput>set '*.selected' 0</userinput>, then for example
<userinput>set artist.selected 1</userinput> to select the artist frame.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-revert">
<title>Revert</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>revert</command>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Revert all modifications in the selected files (or all files if no files
are selected).
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-import">
<title>Import from file or clipboard</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>import</command>
<arg choice="req"><replaceable>FILE</replaceable></arg>
<arg choice="req"><replaceable>FORMAT-NAME</replaceable></arg>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Tags are imported from the file <replaceable>FILE</replaceable> (or from
the clipboard if <userinput>clipboard</userinput> is used for
<replaceable>FILE</replaceable>) in the format with the name
<replaceable>FORMAT-NAME</replaceable> (e.g. <userinput>"CSV
unquoted"</userinput>, see <link linkend="import-text">Import</link>).
</para>
<para>If <userinput>tags</userinput> is given for
<replaceable>FILE</replaceable>, tags are imported from other tags. Instead of
<replaceable>FORMAT-NAME</replaceable> parameters
<replaceable>SOURCE</replaceable> and <replaceable>EXTRACTION</replaceable>
are required, see <link linkend="import-tags">Import from Tags</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-autoimport">
<title>Automatic import</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>autoimport</command>
<arg><replaceable>PROFILE-NAME</replaceable></arg>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Batch import using profile <replaceable>PROFILE-NAME</replaceable> (see
<link linkend="batch-import">Automatic Import</link>,
<userinput>"All"</userinput> is used if omitted).
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-albumart">
<title>Download album cover artwork</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>albumart</command>
<arg choice="req"><replaceable>URL</replaceable></arg>
<arg>all</arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Set the album artwork by downloading a picture from
<replaceable>URL</replaceable>. The rules defined in the <link
linkend="browse_pictures">Browse Cover Art</link> dialog are used to transform
general URLs (e.g. from Amazon) to a picture URL. To set the album cover from
a local picture file, use the <link linkend="cli-set">set</link> command.
</para>
<screen width="65"><prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>albumart
http://www.amazon.com/Versus-World-Amon-Amarth/dp/B000078DOC</userinput></screen>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-export">
<title>Export to file or clipboard</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>export</command>
<arg choice="req"><replaceable>FILE</replaceable></arg>
<arg choice="req"><replaceable>FORMAT-NAME</replaceable></arg>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Tags are exported to file <replaceable>FILE</replaceable> (or to
the clipboard if <userinput>clipboard</userinput> is used for
<replaceable>FILE</replaceable>) in the format with the name
<replaceable>FORMAT-NAME</replaceable> (e.g. <userinput>"CSV
unquoted"</userinput>, see <link linkend="export">Export</link>).
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-playlist">
<title>Create playlist</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>playlist</command>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Create playlist in the format set in the configuration, see <link
linkend="create-playlist">Create Playlist</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-filenameformat">
<title>Apply filename format</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>filenameformat</command>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Apply file name format set in the configuration, see <link linkend="apply-filename-format">Apply Filename Format</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-tagformat">
<title>Apply tag format</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>tagformat</command>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Apply tag name format set in the configuration, see <link linkend="apply-tag-format">Apply Tag Format</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-textencoding">
<title>Apply text encoding</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>textencoding</command>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Apply text encoding set in the configuration, see <link linkend="apply-text-encoding">Apply Text Encoding</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-renamedir">
<title>Rename directory</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>renamedir</command>
<arg><replaceable>FORMAT</replaceable></arg>
<group>
<arg choice="plain">create</arg>
<arg choice="plain">rename</arg>
<arg choice="plain">dryrun</arg>
</group>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Rename or create directories from the values in the
tags according to a given <replaceable>FORMAT</replaceable>
(e.g. <userinput>%{artist} - %{album}</userinput>, see <link
linkend="rename-directory">Rename Directory</link>), if no format is given,
the format defined in the <guilabel>Rename directory</guilabel> dialog is
used. The default mode is <option>rename</option>; to create directories,
<option>create</option> must be given explicitly. The rename actions will be
performed immediately, to just see what would be done, use the
<option>dryrun</option> option.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-numbertracks">
<title>Number tracks</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>numbertracks</command>
<arg><replaceable>TRACK-NUMBER</replaceable></arg>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Number the selected tracks starting with
<replaceable>TRACK-NUMBER</replaceable> (<literal>1</literal> if omitted).
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-filter">
<title>Filter</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>filter</command>
<group>
<arg choice="plain"><replaceable>FILTER-NAME</replaceable></arg>
<arg choice="plain"><replaceable>FILTER-FORMAT</replaceable></arg>
</group>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Filter the files so that only the files matching the
<replaceable>FILTER-FORMAT</replaceable> are visible. The name of a predefined
filter expression (e.g. <userinput>"Filename Tag Mismatch"</userinput>) can be
used instead of a filter expression, see <link linkend="filter">Filter</link>.
</para>

<screen width="65"><prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>filter '%{title} contains "tro"'</userinput><computeroutput>
Started
  /home/urs/One Hit Wonder - Let's Tag
+ 01 Intro.mp3
- 02 We Only Got This One.mp3
+ 03 Outro.mp3
Finished</computeroutput>
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>ls</userinput><computeroutput>
  1- 01 Intro.mp3
  1- 03 Outro.mp3</computeroutput>
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>filter All</userinput><computeroutput>
Started
  /home/urs/One Hit Wonder - Let's Tag
+ 01 Intro.mp3
+ 02 We Only Got This One.mp3
+ 03 Outro.mp3
Finished</computeroutput>
<prompt>kid3-cli&gt; </prompt><userinput>ls</userinput><computeroutput>
  1- 01 Intro.mp3
  12 02 We Only Got This One.mp3
  1- 03 Outro.mp3</computeroutput></screen>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-to24">
<title>Convert ID3v2.3 to ID3v2.4</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>to24</command>
</cmdsynopsis>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-to23">
<title>Convert ID3v2.4 to ID3v2.3</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>to23</command>
</cmdsynopsis>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-fromtag">
<title>Filename from tag</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>fromtag</command>
<arg><replaceable>FORMAT</replaceable></arg>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Set the file names of the selected files from values in the tags, for
example <userinput>fromtag "%{track} - %{title}" 1</userinput>. If no format
is specified, the format set in the GUI is used.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-totag">
<title>Tag from filename</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>totag</command>
<arg><replaceable>FORMAT</replaceable></arg>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBERS</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Set the tag frames from the file names, for example <userinput>totag
"%{albumartist} - %{album}/%{track} %{title}" 2</userinput>. If no format
is specified, the format set in the GUI is used. If the format
of the filename does not match this pattern, a few other commonly used formats
are tried.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-syncto">
<title>Tag to other tag</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>syncto</command>
<arg choice="req"><replaceable>TAG-NUMBER</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Copy the tag frames from one tag to the other tag, e.g. to set the ID3v2
tag from the ID3v1 tag, use <userinput>syncto 2</userinput>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-copy">
<title>Copy</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>copy</command>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBER</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Copy the tag frames of the selected file to the internal copy
buffer. They can then be set on another file using the
<command>paste</command> command.
</para>
<para>
To copy only a subset of the frames, use the "selected" pseudo field with the
<command>set</command> command. For example, to copy only the disc number and
copyright frames, use
<screen width="65">
<userinput>set '*.selected' 0</userinput>
<userinput>set discnumber.selected 1</userinput>
<userinput>set copyright.selected 1</userinput>
<userinput>copy</userinput>
</screen>
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-paste">
<title>Paste</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>paste</command>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBER</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Set tag frames from the contents of the <command>copy</command> buffer
in the selected files.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-remove">
<title>Remove</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>remove</command>
<arg><replaceable>TAG-NUMBER</replaceable></arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Remove a tag.
</para>
<para>It is possible to remove only a subset of the frames by selecting them
as described in the <link linkend="cli-copy"><command>copy</command>
command</link>.
</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="cli-play">
<title>Play</title>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>play</command>
<group>
<arg choice="plain">pause</arg>
<arg choice="plain">stop</arg>
<arg choice="plain">previous</arg>
<arg choice="plain">next</arg>
</group>
</cmdsynopsis>
<para>Start audio playback. Once it has been started, it can be controlled
with the <option>pause</option> (to pause and resume), <option>stop</option>,
<option>previous</option> and <option>next</option> options.
</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="kid3-cli-examples">
<title>Examples</title>
<para>Set title containing an apostrophe. Commands passed to
<command>kid3-cli</command> with <parameter>-c</parameter>
have to be in quotes if they do not only consist of a single word. If such a
command itself has an argument containing spaces, that argument has to be
quoted too. In UNIX shells single or double quotes can be used, but on the
Windows Command Prompt, it is important that the outer quoting is done using
double quotes and inside these quotes, single quotes are used. If the text
inside the single quotes contains a single quote, it has to be escaped using a
backslash character, as shown in the following example:</para>
<screen width="65"><userinput>kid3-cli -c "set title 'I\'ll be there for you'" /path/to/dir</userinput></screen>

<para>Set album cover in all files of a directory using the batch import
function:</para>
<screen width="65"><userinput>kid3-cli -c "autoimport 'Cover Art'" /path/to/dir</userinput></screen>

<para>Remove comment frames and apply the tag format in both tags of all MP3
files of a directory:</para>
<screen width="65"><userinput>kid3-cli -c "set comment '' 1" -c "set comment '' 2" \
-c "tagformat 1" -c "tagformat 2" /path/to/dir/*.mp3</userinput></screen>

<para>Automatically import tag 2, synchronize to tag 1, set file names from
tag 2 and finally create a playlist:</para>
<screen width="65"><userinput>kid3-cli -c autoimport -c "syncto 1" -c fromtag -c playlist \
  /path/to/dir/*.mp3</userinput></screen>

<para>For all files with an ID3v2.4.0 tag, convert to ID3v2.3.0 and remove
the arranger frame:</para>
<screen width="65"><userinput>kid3-cli -c "filter 'ID3v2.4.0 Tag'" -c "select all" -c to23 \
  -c "set arranger ''" /path/to/dir</userinput></screen>

<para>This Python script uses <command>kid3-cli</command> to generate iTunes
Sound Check iTunNORM frames from replay gain information.</para>
<programlisting>
<![CDATA[
#!/usr/bin/env python
# Generate iTunes Sound Check from ReplayGain.
from __future__ import print_function
import os, sys, subprocess

def rg2sc(dirpath):
  for root, dirs, files in os.walk(dirpath):
    for name in files:
      if name.endswith(('.mp3', '.m4a', '.aiff', '.aif')):
        fn = os.path.join(root, name)
        rg = subprocess.check_output([
          'kid3-cli', '-c', 'get "replaygain_track_gain"',
           fn]).strip()
        if rg.endswith(b' dB'):
          rg = rg[:-3]
        try:
          rg = float(rg)
        except ValueError:
          print('Value %s of %s in not a float' % (rg, fn))
          continue
        sc = (' ' + ('%08X' % int((10 ** (-rg / 10)) * 1000) )) * 10
        subprocess.call([
          'kid3-cli', '-c', 'set iTunNORM "%s"' % sc, fn])

if __name__ == '__main__':
  rg2sc(sys.argv[1])
]]>
</programlisting>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>
&kid3;
</para>
<para>
Program written by Urs Fleisch <email>ufleisch@users.sourceforge.net</email>
</para>


&underFDL;
&underGPL;

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-kid3">
<title>How to obtain Kid3</title>

<para>
&kid3; can be found at
<ulink url="http://kid3.sourceforge.net">http://kid3.sourceforge.net</ulink>.
</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>
&kid3; needs <ulink url="http://qt-project.org/">Qt</ulink>. <ulink
url="http://www.kde.org">KDE</ulink> is recommended but not necessary, as
&kid3; can also be compiled as a Qt application. &kid3; can be compiled for
systems where these libraries are available, e.g. for GNU/Linux, Windows
and Mac OS X.

To tag Ogg/Vorbis
files, <ulink url="http://xiph.org/ogg/">libogg</ulink>,
<ulink url="http://xiph.org/vorbis/">libvorbis and libvorbisfile</ulink> are
required, for FLAC files <ulink url="http://flac.sourceforge.net">libFLAC++
and libFLAC</ulink>.
<ulink url="http://id3lib.sourceforge.net">id3lib</ulink> is used for MP3
 files.
These four formats are also supported by
<ulink url="http://taglib.github.io/">TagLib</ulink>,
which can also handle Opus, MPC, APE, MP2, Speex, TrueAudio, WavPack, WMA, WAV, AIFF
files and tracker modules.
To import from acoustic fingerprints,
<ulink url="http://acoustid.org/chromaprint">Chromaprint</ulink>
and <ulink url="http://libav.org/">libav</ulink> are used.
</para>
<para>
&kid3; is available for most Linux distributions, Windows and Mac OS X.
Links can be found on <ulink url="http://kid3.sourceforge.net">
http://kid3.sourceforge.net</ulink>.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

<para>
You can compile &kid3; with or without KDE. Without KDE, &kid3; is a
simple Qt application and lacks some configuration and session features.
</para>
<para>
For a KDE version, go into the top directory and type
<screen width="40">
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>cmake .</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make</userinput>
<prompt>%</prompt> <userinput>make install</userinput>
</screen>
</para>
<para>
To compile for different versions of Qt or KDE, set the corresponding
<userinput>cmake</userinput> options.
</para>
<para>
If not all libraries are present, &kid3; is built with reduced functionality.
So you should take care to have all desired development packages installed.
On the other side, <userinput>cmake</userinput>-options control which
libraries are compiled in. The default is
<userinput>-D WITH_TAGLIB:BOOL=ON -D WITH_MP4V2:BOOL=OFF -D WITH_ID3LIB:BOOL=ON
-D WITH_CHROMAPRINT:BOOL=ON -D WITH_VORBIS:BOOL=ON -D WITH_FLAC:BOOL=ON
</userinput>. These options can be disabled using
<userinput>OFF</userinput>.
</para>
<para>
To build &kid3; as a Qt application without KDE, use the
<userinput>cmake</userinput> option <userinput>-DWITH_APPS=Qt</userinput>.
To build both a KDE and a Qt application, set
<userinput>-DWITH_APPS="Qt;KDE"</userinput>.
</para>
<para>
Qt 4 or Qt 5 can be used. To force the use of Qt 4, set
<userinput>-DWITH_QT4=ON</userinput>, to force the use of Qt 5, set
<userinput>-DWITH_QT5=ON</userinput>, if both these options are OFF (default),
Qt 4 is preferred if both versions are installed. To use a specific Qt
installation, set
<userinput>-DQT_QMAKE_EXECUTABLE=/path/to/qmake</userinput>.
If building the KDE application is enabled, setting Qt 4 will use KDE 4,
whereas setting Qt 5 will use KDE 5.
</para>
<para>
Generation of RPM-Packages is supported by the
file <filename>kid3.spec</filename>, for Debian-Packages,
the script <filename>build-deb.sh</filename>is available.
</para>

<para>
The Qt application can also be compiled for Windows and Mac OS X.
The scripts in the folders <filename>win32</filename> and
<filename>macosx</filename> can be used to build and create packages.
The libraries can be installed using <filename>buildlibs.sh</filename>.
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="configuration">
<title>Configuration</title>

<para>With KDE, the file name filter and format, the import formats, the
filename and ID3 formats, the toolbar and statusbar
settings as well as the window size will be be saved in the standard
location in file <filename>kid3rc</filename>.
As a Qt application, this file is
in <filename>.config/Kid3/Kid3.conf</filename>. On Windows,
the configuration is stored in the registry.
</para>
<para>The environment variable <varname>KID3_CONFIG_FILE</varname> can be used
to set the path of the configuration file.</para>

</sect1>

</appendix>

<appendix id="dbus-interface">
<title>D-Bus Interface</title>

<sect1 id="dbus-examples">
<title>D-Bus Examples</title>

<para>
The Qt 4 and KDE 4 versions on Linux offer a D-Bus-Interface to control
&kid3; by scripts. Scripts can be written in any language with D-Bus-bindings
(e.g. in Python) and can be added to the <guilabel>User Actions</guilabel> to
extend the functionality of &kid3;.
</para>

<para>
The artist in tag 2 of the current file can be set to the value "One Hit Wonder"
with the following code:
</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry><term>Shell</term>
<listitem>
<programlisting>
dbus-send --dest=net.sourceforge.kid3 --print-reply=literal \
/Kid3 net.sourceforge.Kid3.setFrame int32:2 string:'Artist' \
string:'One Hit Wonder'
</programlisting>
<para>
or easier with Qt's <command>qdbus</command> (<command>qdbusviewer</command>
can be used to explore the interface in a GUI):
</para>
<programlisting>
qdbus net.sourceforge.kid3 /Kid3 setFrame 2 Artist \
'One Hit Wonder'
</programlisting>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term>Python</term>
<listitem>
<programlisting>
import dbus
kid3 = dbus.SessionBus().get_object(
  'net.sourceforge.kid3', '/Kid3')
kid3.setFrame(2, 'Artist', 'One Hit Wonder')
</programlisting>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
<varlistentry><term>Perl</term>
<listitem>
<programlisting>
use Net::DBus;
$kid3 = Net::DBus->session->get_service(
  "net.sourceforge.kid3")->get_object(
  "/Kid3", "net.sourceforge.Kid3");
$kid3->setFrame(2, "Artist", "One Hit Wonder");
</programlisting>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="dbus-api">
<title>D-Bus API</title>

<para>
The D-Bus API is specified
in <filename>net.sourceforge.Kid3.xml</filename>. The Kid3 interface has the
following methods:
</para>

<sect2 id="dbus-openDirectory">
<title>Open file or directory</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>openDirectory</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>path</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>path to file or directory</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>Returns true if OK.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-save">
<title>Save all modified files</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>save</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true if OK.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-getErrorMessage">
<title>Get a detailed error message provided by some methods</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>string <function>getErrorMessage</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns detailed error message.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-revert">
<title>Revert changes in the selected files</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>revert</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-batchImport">
<title>Start an automatic batch import</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>batchImport</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>profileName</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag mask (bit 0 for tag 1, bit 1 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>profileName</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>name of batch import profile to use</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-importFromFile">
<title>Import tags from a file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>importFromFile</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>fmtIdx</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>path</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>path of file</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>fmtIdx</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>index of format</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>Returns true if OK.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-importFromTags">
<title>Import tags from other tags</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>importFromTags</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>source</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>extraction</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>source</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>format to get source text from tags</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>extraction</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>regular expression with frame names and captures to
    extract from source text</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-downloadAlbumArt">
<title>Download album cover art</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>downloadAlbumArt</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>url</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>boolean <parameter>allFilesInDir</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>url</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>URL of picture file or album art
    resource</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>allFilesInDir</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>true to add the image to all files in the
    directory</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-exportToFile">
<title>Export tags to a file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>exportToFile</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>fmtIdx</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>path</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>path of file</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>fmtIdx</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>index of format</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>Returns true if OK.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-createPlaylist">
<title>Create a playlist</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>createPlaylist</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true if OK.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-getPlaylistItems">
<title>Get items of a playlist</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>getPlaylistItems</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>path</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>path to playlist file</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>Returns list of absolute paths to playlist items.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-setPlaylistItems">
<title>Set items of a playlist</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>setPlaylistItems</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>path</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>array <parameter>items</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>path</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>path to playlist file</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>items</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>list of absolute paths to playlist items</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>Returns true if OK, false if not all items were found and added or
saving failed.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-quit">
<title>Quit the application</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>quit</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-selectAll">
<title>Select all files</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>selectAll</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-deselectAll">
<title>Deselect all files</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>deselectAll</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-firstFile">
<title>Set the first file as the current file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>firstFile</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true if there is a first file.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-previousFile">
<title>Set the previous file as the current file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>previousFile</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true if there is a previous file.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-nextFile">
<title>Set the next file as the current file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>nextFile</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true if there is a next file.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-selectFirstFile">
<title>Select the first file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>selectFirstFile</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true if there is a first file.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-selectPreviousFile">
<title>Select the previous file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>selectPreviousFile</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true if there is a previous file.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-selectNextFile">
<title>Select the next file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>selectNextFile</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true if there is a next file.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-selectCurrentFile">
<title>Select the current file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>selectCurrentFile</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true if there is a current file.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-expandDirectory">
<title>Expand or collapse the current file item if it is a directory</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>expandDirectory</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>A file list item is a directory if getFileName() returns a name with
      '/' as the last character.</para>
<para>Returns true if current file item is a directory.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-applyFilenameFormat">
<title>Apply the file name format</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>applyFilenameFormat</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-applyTagFormat">
<title>Apply the tag format</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>applyTagFormat</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-applyTextEncoding">
<title>Apply text encoding</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>applyTextEncoding</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-setDirNameFromTag">
<title>Set the directory name from the tags</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>setDirNameFromTag</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>format</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>boolean <parameter>create</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag mask (bit 0 for tag 1, bit 1 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>format</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>directory name format</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>create</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>true to create, false to rename</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>Returns true if OK, else the error message is available using getErrorMessage().</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-numberTracks">
<title>Set subsequent track numbers in the selected files</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>numberTracks</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>firstTrackNr</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag mask (bit 0 for tag 1, bit 1 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>firstTrackNr</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>number to use for first file</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-filter">
<title>Filter the files</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>filter</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>expression</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>expression</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>filter expression</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-convertToId3v24">
<title>Convert ID3v2.3 tags to ID3v2.4</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>convertToId3v24</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-convertToId3v23">
<title>Convert ID3v2.4 tags to ID3v2.3</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>convertToId3v23</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true if OK.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-getDirectoryName">
<title>Get path of directory</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>string <function>getDirectoryName</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns absolute path of directory.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-getFileName">
<title>Get name of current file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>string <function>getFileName</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Returns true absolute file name, ends with "/" if it is a directory.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-setFileName">
<title>Set name of selected file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>setFileName</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>name</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>name</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>file name</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>The file will be renamed when the directory is saved.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-setFileNameFormat">
<title>Set format to use when setting the filename from the tags</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>setFileNameFormat</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>format</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>format</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>file name format</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-setFileNameFromTag">
<title>Set the file names of the selected files from the tags</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>setFileNameFromTag</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-getFrame">
<title>Get value of frame</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>string <function>getFrame</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>name</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>name</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>name of frame (e.g. "artist")</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>To get binary data like a picture, the name of a file to write can be
added after the <parameter>name</parameter>, e.g. "Picture:/path/to/file".
In the same way, synchronized lyrics can be exported, e.g. "SYLT:/path/to/file".
</para>
<para>Returns value of frame.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-setFrame">
<title>Set value of frame</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>boolean <function>setFrame</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>name</parameter></paramdef>
  <paramdef>string <parameter>value</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>name</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>name of frame (e.g. "artist")</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>value</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>value of frame</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>For tag 2 (<parameter>tagMask</parameter> 2), if no frame with <parameter>name</parameter> exists, a new frame
is added, if <parameter>value</parameter> is empty, the frame is deleted.
To add binary data like a picture, a file can be added after the
<parameter>name</parameter>, e.g. "Picture:/path/to/file".
"SYLT:/path/to/file" can be used to import synchronized lyrics.</para>
<para>Returns true if OK.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-getTag">
<title>Get all frames of a tag</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>array of string <function>getTag</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
<para>Returns list with alternating frame names and values.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-getInformation">
<title>Get technical information about file</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef>array of string <function>getInformation</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Properties are Format, Bitrate, Samplerate, Channels, Duration,
      Channel Mode, VBR, Tag 1, Tag 2.
      Properties which are not available are omitted.</para>
<para>Returns list with alternating property names and values.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-setTagFromFileName">
<title>Set tag from file name</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>setTagFromFileName</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-setTagFromOtherTag">
<title>Set tag from other tag</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>setTagFromOtherTag</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-copyTag">
<title>Copy tag</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>copyTag</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-pasteTag">
<title>Paste tag</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>pasteTag</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-removeTag">
<title>Remove tag</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>removeTag</function></funcdef>
  <paramdef>int32 <parameter>tagMask</parameter></paramdef>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<variablelist>
  <varlistentry>
    <term><replaceable>tagMask</replaceable></term>
    <listitem><para>tag bit (1 for tag 1, 2 for tag 2)</para></listitem>
  </varlistentry>
</variablelist>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-reparseConfiguration">
<title>Reparse the configuration</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>reparseConfiguration</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
<para>Automated configuration changes are possible by modifying
      the configuration file and then reparsing the configuration.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="dbus-playAudio">
<title>Plays the selected files</title>
<funcsynopsis>
<funcprototype>
  <funcdef><function>playAudio</function></funcdef>
  <void/>
</funcprototype>
</funcsynopsis>
</sect2>

</sect1>

</appendix>

<appendix id="qml-interface">
<title>QML Interface</title>

<sect1 id="qml-examples">
<title>QML Examples</title>

<para>
QML scripts can be invoked via the context menu of the file list and can be
set in the tab <link linkend="configure-user-actions-qml">User Actions</link>
of the settings dialog. The scripts which are set there can be used as
examples to program custom scripts. QML uses JavaScript, here is the
obligatory "Hello World":
</para>

<programlisting>
import Kid3 1.0

Kid3Script {
  onRun: {
    console.log("Hello world, directory is", app.dirName)
    Qt.quit()
  }
}
</programlisting>

<para>
If this script is saved as <filename>/path/to/Example.qml</filename>, the user
command can be defined as <command>@qml
/path/to/Example.qml</command> with name <userinput>QML Test</userinput> and
<guilabel>Output</guilabel> checked. It can then be started using the
<guilabel>QML Test</guilabel> item in the file list context menu, and the
output will be visible in the window.
</para>

<para>
Alternatively, the script could also be started independent of Kid3 using the
QML tools.

<screen width="80">
qmlviewer -I /usr/lib/kid3/plugins/imports /path/to/Example.qml
</screen>

For Qt 5, the commands
<screen width="80">
qml -apptype widget -I /usr/lib/kid3/plugins/imports /path/to/Example.qml
</screen>
or
<screen width="80">
qmlscene -I /usr/lib/kid3/plugins/imports /path/to/Example.qml
</screen>
can be used. On Windows and OS X, the import path must be adapted to the
<filename>imports</filename> folder inside the installation directory. Scripts
started outside of &kid3; will use the current directory, so it should be
changed beforehand.
</para>

<para>
To list the titles in the tags 2 of all files in the current directory, the
following script could be used:
</para>

<programlisting>
import Kid3 1.0

Kid3Script {
  onRun: {
    app.firstFile()
    do {
      if (app.selectionInfo.tag(Frame.Tag_2).tagFormat)
        console.log(app.getFrame(tagv2, "title"))
    } while (app.nextFile())
  }
}
</programlisting>

<para>
If the directory contains many files, such a script might block the user
interface for some time. For longer operations, it should therefore have a
break from time to time. The alternative implementation below has the work for
a single file moved out into a function. This function invokes itself with a
timeout of 1 ms at the end, given that more files have to be processed. This
will ensure that the GUI remains responsive while the script is running.
</para>

<programlisting>
import Kid3 1.0

Kid3Script {
  onRun: {
    function doWork() {
      if (app.selectionInfo.tag(Frame.Tag_2).tagFormat) {
        console.log(app.getFrame(tagv2, "title"))
      }
      if (!app.nextFile()) {
        Qt.quit()
      } else {
        setTimeout(doWork, 1)
      }
    }

    app.firstFile()
    doWork()
  }
}
</programlisting>

<para>
When using <command>app.firstFile()</command> with
<command>app.nextFile()</command>, all files of the current directory will be
processed. If only the selected files shall be affected, use
<command>firstFile()</command> and <command>nextFile()</command> instead,
these are convenience functions of the <classname>Kid3Script</classname>
component. The following example is a script which copies only the disc number
and copyright frames of the selected file.
</para>

<programlisting>
import Kid3 1.1

Kid3Script {
  onRun: {
    function doWork() {
      if (app.selectionInfo.tag(Frame.Tag_2).tagFormat) {
        app.setFrame(tagv2, "*.selected", false)
        app.setFrame(tagv2, "discnumber.selected", true)
        app.setFrame(tagv2, "copyright.selected", true)
        app.copyTags(tagv2)
      }
      if (!nextFile()) {
        Qt.quit()
      } else {
        setTimeout(doWork, 1)
      }
    }

    firstFile()
    doWork()
  }
}
</programlisting>

<para>
More example scripts come with &kid3; and are already registered as user commands.

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>
<guilabel>ReplayGain to SoundCheck</guilabel>
(<filename>ReplayGain2SoundCheck.qml</filename>):
Create iTunNORM SoundCheck information from replay gain frames.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guilabel>Resize Album Art</guilabel>
(<filename>ResizeAlbumArt.qml</filename>):
Resize embedded cover art images which are larger than 500x500 pixels.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guilabel>Extract Album Art</guilabel>
(<filename>ExtractAlbumArt.qml</filename>):
Extract all embedded cover art pictures avoiding duplicates.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guilabel>Embed Album Art</guilabel>
(<filename>EmbedAlbumArt.qml</filename>):
Embed cover art found in image files into audio files in the same folder.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guilabel>Embed Lyrics</guilabel>
(<filename>EmbedLyrics.qml</filename>):
Fetch unsynchronized lyrics from web service.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guilabel>Text Encoding ID3v1</guilabel>
(<filename>ShowTextEncodingV1.qml</filename>):
Helps to find the encoding of ID3v1 tags by showing the tags of the
current file in all available character encodings.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guilabel>Export CSV</guilabel>
(<filename>ExportCsv.qml</filename>):
Export recursively all tags of all files to a CSV file.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guilabel>Export Playlist Folder</guilabel>
(<filename>ExportPlaylist.qml</filename>):
Copy all files from a playlist into a directory and rename them according to
their position.
</para></listitem>
<listitem><para>
<guilabel>QML Console</guilabel>
(<filename>QmlConsole.qml</filename>):
Simple console to play with &kid3;'s QML API.
</para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="qml-api">
<title>QML API</title>

<para>
The API can be easily explored using the QML Console, which is available as an
example script with a user interface.
</para>

<sect2 id="qml-kid3script">
<title>Kid3Script</title>

<para>
<classname>Kid3Script</classname> is a regular QML component located inside
the plugin directory. You could use another QML component just as well. Using
<classname>Kid3Script</classname> makes it easy to start the script function
using the <function>onRun</function> signal handler. It also hides the
differences between the QtQuick versions, so as to make scripts compatible
with both Qt 4 and Qt 5. Moreover it offers some functions:

<programlisting>
onRun: Signal handler which is invoked when the script is started
tagv1, tagv2, tagv2v1: Constants for tag parameters
script: Access to scripting functions
configs: Access to configuration objects
getArguments(): List of script arguments
isStandalone(): true if the script was not started from within Kid3
setTimeout(callback, delay): Starts callback after delay ms
</programlisting>

</para>
</sect2>

<sect2 id="qml-script">
<title>Scripting Functions</title>

<para>
As JavaScript and therefore QML too has only a limited set of functions for
scripting, the <function>script</function> object has some additional methods,
for instance:
</para>

<programlisting>
script.properties(obj): String with Qt properties
script.writeFile(filePath, data): Write data to file, true if OK
script.readFile(filePath): Read data from file
script.removeFile(filePath): Delete file, true if OK
script.fileExists(filePath): true if file exists
script.renameFile(oldName, newName): Rename file, true if OK
script.copyFile(source, dest): Copy file, true if OK
script.makeDir(path): Create directory, true if OK
script.removeDir(path): Remove directory, true if OK
script.tempPath(): Path to temporary directory
script.listDir(path, [nameFilters], [classify]): List directory entries
script.system(program, [args], [msecs]): Synchronously start a system command,
  [exit code, standard output, standard error] if not timeout
script.getEnv(varName): Get value of environment variable
script.setEnv(varName, value): Set value of environment variable
script.getQtVersion(): Qt version string, e.g. "5.4.1"
script.getDataMd5(data): Get hex string of the MD5 hash of data
script.getDataSize(data): Get size of byte array
script.dataToImage(data, [format]): Create an image from data bytes
script.dataFromImage(img, [format]): Get data bytes from image
script.loadImage(filePath): Load an image from a file
script.saveImage(img, filePath, [format]): Save an image to a file, true if OK
script.imageProperties(img): Get properties of an image, map containing
  "width", "height", "depth" and "colorCount", empty if invalid image
script.scaleImage(img, width, [height]): Scale an image, returns scaled image
script.selectFileName(caption, dir, filter, saveFile): Open file dialog to
select a file
</programlisting>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="qml-app">
<title>Application Context</title>

<para>
Using QML, a large part of the &kid3; functions are accessible. The API is
similar to the one used for <link linkend="dbus-api">D-Bus</link>. For
details, refer to the respective notes.
</para>

<programlisting>
app.openDirectory(path): Open directory
app.saveDirectory(): Save directory
app.revertFileModifications(): Revert
app.importTags(tag, path, fmtIdx): Import file
app.importFromTags(tag, source, extraction): Import from tags
app.downloadImage(url, allFilesInDir): Download image
app.exportTags(tag, path, fmtIdx): Export file
app.writePlaylist(): Write playlist
app.getPlaylistItems(path): Get items of a playlist
app.setPlaylistItems(path, items): Set items of a playlist
app.selectAllFiles(): Select all
app.deselectAllFiles(): Deselect
app.firstFile([select], [onlyTaggedFiles]): To first file
app.nextFile([select], [onlyTaggedFiles]): To next file
app.previousFile([select], [onlyTaggedFiles]): To previous file
app.selectCurrentFile([select]): Select current file
app.selectFile(path, [select]): Select a specific file
app.getSelectedFilePaths([onlyTaggedFiles]): Get paths of selected files
app.requestExpandFileList(): Expand all
app.applyFilenameFormat(): Apply filename format
app.applyTagFormat(): Apply tag format
app.applyTextEncoding(): Apply text encoding
app.numberTracks(nr, total, tag, [options]): Number tracks
app.applyFilter(expr): Filter
app.convertToId3v23(): Convert ID3v2.4.0 to ID3v2.3.0
app.convertToId3v24(): Convert ID3v2.3.0 to ID3v2.4.0
app.getFilenameFromTags(tag): Filename from tags
app.getTagsFromFilename(tag): Filename to tags
app.getAllFrames(tag): Get object with all frames
app.getFrame(tag, name): Get frame
app.setFrame(tag, name, value): Set frame
app.getPictureData(): Get data from picture frame
app.setPictureData(data): Set data in picture frame
app.copyToOtherTag(tag): Tags to other tags
app.copyTags(tag): Copy
app.pasteTags(tag): Paste
app.removeTags(tag): Remove
app.playAudio(): Play
app.readConfig(): Read configuration
app.applyChangedConfiguration(): Apply configuration
app.dirName: Directory name
app.selectionInfo.fileName: File name
app.selectionInfo.filePath: Absolute file path
app.selectionInfo.detailInfo: Format details
app.selectionInfo.tag(Frame.Tag_1).tagFormat: Tag 1 format
app.selectionInfo.tag(Frame.Tag_2).tagFormat: Tag 2 format
app.selectionInfo.formatString(tag, format): Substitute codes in format string
</programlisting>

<para>
For asynchronous operations, callbacks can be connected to signals.
</para>

<programlisting>
function automaticImport(profile) {
  function onAutomaticImportFinished() {
    app.batchImporter.finished.disconnect(onAutomaticImportFinished)
  }
  app.batchImporter.finished.connect(onAutomaticImportFinished)
  app.batchImport(profile, tagv2)
}

function renameDirectory(format) {
  function onRenameActionsScheduled() {
    app.renameActionsScheduled.disconnect(onRenameActionsScheduled)
    app.performRenameActions()
  }
  app.renameActionsScheduled.connect(onRenameActionsScheduled)
  app.renameDirectory(tagv2v1, format, false)
}
</programlisting>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="qml-configs">
<title>Configuration Objects</title>

<para>
The different configuration sections are accessible via methods of
<function>configs</function>. Their properties can be listed in the QML console.

<screen width="80">
script.properties(configs.networkConfig())
</screen>

Properties can be set:
<screen width="80">
configs.networkConfig().useProxy = false
</screen>
</para>

<programlisting>
configs.batchImportConfig()
configs.exportConfig()
configs.fileConfig()
configs.filenameFormatConfig()
configs.filterConfig()
configs.findReplaceConfig()
configs.guiConfig()
configs.importConfig()
configs.mainWindowConfig()
configs.networkConfig()
configs.numberTracksConfig()
configs.playlistConfig()
configs.renDirConfig()
configs.tagConfig()
configs.tagFormatConfig()
configs.userActionsConfig()
</programlisting>

</sect2>

</sect1>

</appendix>

&documentation.index;
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: nxml
End:
-->
